#https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2020/jul/24/the-death-of-paulette-wilson-must-mark-the-end-of-the-hostile-environment https://www.theguardian.com/football/2020/jul/25/everybody-trusts-him-alisson-liverpool-no-1-goalkeeper

It was tragic to hear of the death of Paulette Wilson, who was one of those caught up in the Windrush scandal. She died aged 64; and you must wonder whether the stress of her situation didn’t lead to a premature death.

Paulette came to the UK from Jamaica aged 10. She never returned there, grew up in Britain, and worked as a chef for most of her life – including a spell at the House of Commons – had 34 years of National Insurance payments, and had a British child and a British grandchild. But in 2015, the hostile environment policy meant her benefits were stopped, she was sent to Yarl’s Wood detention centre and was very nearly deported.

The most important thing to say about Paulette was how incredibly dignified she was throughout. She had that in common with most of the victims of the Windrush scandal. Hers was a generation who came to Britain from Commonwealth countries in the sincere belief that they were coming to the “mother country”. They loved their countries of origin but were proud of being British.

And it did not occur to them that they were not British. They had been taught solely British history at school in, had learned to recite British poetry by heart and had been encouraged to revere the British royal family. Paulette described how, when she received the letter from the Home Office about her deportation, she walked around in a dazed state for many days. Completely perplexed, all she could say to herself was: “Why am I illegal?”

But this letter and the deportation threat were not random. They were the direct consequence of legislation passed two years earlier. And the Immigration Act of 2014 was not just a Tory bill. The Conservative-Lib Dem coalition was then in government. Sad to say, the Labour party’s official position at that time was not to oppose this legislation. Unfortunately there is a long Labour parliamentary history of “constructive opposition”, as its proponents like to call it. But in truth, this is often neither constructive nor real opposition. Very frequently it is destructive of the rights, liberties or wellbeing of British citizens or those in other countries.

Last Sunday Liverpool’s social media team released a video marking the two-year anniversary of Alisson’s arrival at the club. Across 35 seconds it displayed a rapid-fire collection of the Brazilian’s best saves, all played out to a Samba beat, and with the man himself shouting: “We celebrate now!” into the camera at the end.

It was an exciting, high-octane way to celebrate Alisson’s time at Liverpool and, because of that, somewhat inappropriate. For what has stood out about the goalkeeper’s contribution to the team’s success since he arrived from Roma for a then world-record £65m fee is how understated it has been. No dramas, no fuss, just a string of reliable performances from the handsome lumberjack with Eskimo blood. Indeed it says much about how cool, calm and excellent Alisson has been for the world, European and English champions that when he does make a mistake it feels like football’s equivalent of a heatwave in December – unexpected and extraordinary.

Achterberg, an affable Dutchman who has been part of Liverpool’s backroom staff for more than 11 years, first became aware of Alisson in 2013, when the Brazilian was playing for his boyhood club, Internacional. Achterberg recommended him to Jürgen Klopp three years later and was delighted when he was signed as a replacement for Loris Karius in the aftermath of the German’s harrowing display in the 2018 Champions League final.

The new man more than proved a significant upgrade in his first season – brilliant as Liverpool missed out on the Premier League title by a point and even more so as they made up for defeat in Kiev with victory in Madrid, pulling off eight saves against Tottenham to help secure that sixth European Cup.

That led to Alisson being named Uefa’s and Fifa’s goalkeeper of the year, and the expectation was he would go from strength to strength this season. According to some metrics he has actually gone backwards, but that can largely be put down to injury and playing behind a less secure defence. As far as Achertberg is concerned there has been no drop-off in Alisson’s performance levels – rather the 27-year-old has confirmed during this most unusual of campaigns not only his status as one of the world’s finest keepers but also the perfect one for this Liverpool side.

“The way we play means the goalkeeper needs to be an all-round goalkeeper, someone who can deal with balls over the top and sweep up because we play with a high line,” Achterberg says. “We also want someone who comes for crosses, is decent in one-on-ones, who can makes saves … many goalies can’t fit the way we play but Ali does because he has these skills.