Turkey's nuclear plans ? which ignore the risks to the population and ecosystems of Turkey and the surrounding region ? prompt the suspicion that there are underlying plans previously determined by Turkey's political and military leaders to acquire nuclear technology enabling them to build nuclear weapons, as evidenced by their attempts to buy reactors of Canadian origin of the type acquired by India and Pakistan.
Turkey's nuclear plans B which ignore the risks to the population and ecosystems of Turkey and the surrounding region B prompt the suspicion that there are underlying plans previously determined by Turkey's political and military leaders to acquire nuclear technology enabling them to build nuclear weapons, as evidenced by their attempts to buy reactors of Canadian origin of the type acquired by India and Pakistan.
Nevertheless, rumour has it that it plans to buy Candu reactors of the type acquired by Pakistan and India which were used for nuclear weapons.
But why do they not buy their own entrance ticket?
European citizens have the right to buy goods for their own use, including taxes, in any Member Sate and to take them to another Member Sate without having to subject these goods to controls and without possibly having to pay another set of taxes on them.
Do I also need to mention that investors who sold dollars to buy euros have lost 20% since 1 January 1999, 40% if they bought bonds, and no less than 55% if they sold yen to buy euros?
The preparatory work has largely consisted of a viable balance between increasing the efficacy and growth of the European investment markets and preserving a sufficient level of protection for consumers who buy fund units.
In that way, you can still have both sorts of chocolate and choose which you want to buy according to personal taste or national tradition.
My concern is that the high calorific value waste will be cherry-picked for coincineration and this in turn will push up the cost of the specialist toxic waste incinerators which will mean that they will have to actually buy in fuel in many instances to achieve the high temperatures which are required to destroy things like dioxin.
very explicit wording intended for consumers so that they can buy chocolate in full knowledge of the facts;
It cannot just be a question of whether everyone has a mobile phone, how e-mail gets sent and what to buy over the Internet.
We have an important job to do to explain the workings of the whole productive system to the consumers of Europe and those outside the Union who will buy our food.
There are 'clients' , if one can use the word in such a horrifying situation, who buy children in order to indulge their sexual fantasies.
Every issuer would be supervised by national authorities and we know that the potential for money-supply growth caused by this sort of issuance would be extremely slight given the sort of schemes which are already operating in a number of Member States: for example, on university campuses a student may be able to use this piece of plastic to buy something in a bar, or in a canteen, or in the university bookshop.
If consumers buy fresh carrots, they must be able to assume that these are untreated and not processed and they do not expect them to be dipped in a preservative.
These families cannot buy their bread, but have to make it themselves and add the binding agent themselves.
Still less can there be any question of allowing financial aid and food aid from the European Union to be misused in order to buy weapons.
There were children who were being bred specifically to be put into an institution from which they were subsequently sold to people coming into that country to buy babies.
Thousands of people across Europe have chosen not to buy products containing GMOs because of the evidence of health and environmental damage.
It is, however, still more important to restore citizens' confidence in the food they buy and eat - in actual fact, it is perhaps in that way that the market will be strengthened.
We who sit in this Chamber, for the most part middle-aged and well-to-do, know perfectly well that it is young people and families with children who buy and eat the cheapest food - sausages, hamburgers etc.
Whatever may be the policy of this Union in regard to an open market economy, those people who want to buy home-produced meat should be given the right to know it is home-produced.
This does not preclude all the other information being added to the label on a voluntary basis. Mentioning the relevant country, region, town, village, and so on and so forth, is fine but let the consumer decide where he wants to buy the product.
Through this system, consumers can obtain information about the origin of the meat which they buy and the background of the animal can be checked. Due to this improved link between producer and consumer, potential risks to public health can be detected at an early stage and avoided much more effectively.
The main aim of the new regulation is to enable consumers to trace the source of the meat they buy right back to the animal.
These new proposals enable consumers to trace the source of the meat they buy right back to the animal.
British farmers particularly recognise that clear labelling is the best way of reassuring worried consumers that the beef they buy is safe.
Surely it is absolutely appalling that the governments of poverty-stricken countries such as Ethiopia and Eritrea buy arms on a massive scale instead of building up sufficient food reserves.
Nonetheless, in a region torn apart by a rearguard conflict, this crisis leaves a particularly bitter taste, because every penny paid to buy a gun, to buy ammunition, aggravates an already precarious economic, social and nutritional situation.
But they are asked to practically give their oil away and then buy food.
I also hope and trust that they will begin to appreciate and to continue to drink milk. One thing which amazes me, especially when the agricultural community and dairy farmers are going through such difficult times, is that people are prepared to buy many other products and pay substantial amounts of money for them, but they are not prepared to pay the same amount of money for milk, either for themselves, or for their children.
Parliament has its own information offices, but the Finnish office apparently has no money to buy copies of the EU Treaty, which would allow Members to familiarise themselves with its contents in their office at Parliament.
So there is some concern that firms established in Member States where this is allowed could encourage Austrian patients to order and buy medicines through the Internet.
Secondly, eroding or even abolishing the intervention system will leave farmers at the mercy of traders, who buy from producers at derisory prices and then often resell at substantially higher prices.
We are being asked not just for a belt-and-braces policy but also to buy a new pair of trousers just in case.
Because of the policies of the European Union, olive oil producers are truly at the mercy of big producers who negotiate among themselves and try to buy olive oil at unbelievably low prices.
You do not buy an umbrella once it has begun to rain. Instead, you buy an umbrella when the sun is shining so that you are prepared for when the rain comes.
Businesses within the European Union have become 25% cheaper for the United States to buy.
This is highly reminiscent of the exploitation of agricultural workers in some countries who are forced to buy from the boss' s shop at inflated prices and who are then forced to work for the rest of their lives for scant wages in order to pay off their debts to this shop.
Japan, incidentally, ties its debt relief to responsibility to buy Japanese exports.
Let it be clear that we have no need to buy this glass palace, whatever - I am sure - necessary conditions are being met.
I believe that for some people who have the money to buy large ships and equip them in today's world there is no limit to the capacity that can be applied to extracting resources from the sea.
In addition, it should not be possible for people to buy cigarettes at supermarkets, cafés or petrol stations as an afterthought.
If you are 100% determined in your mind that you want to buy a tobacco product, you should have to visit an outlet which only sells this product.
You can opt to buy replacement therapy rather than overdose on cigarettes.
First, there is enough ill treatment of copyright: pay-TV services only buy the rights for a particular Member State.
We need to ensure that those competition authorities are adequately staffed, conscious of their European responsibilities and prepared to buy in to the coordination process that is being proposed in this report, because they will have that crucial responsibility.
It would be better to give pensioners a sum of money to buy a new digital television than to give money to public entities which enjoy an unfair advantage in competition with private companies.
You can buy that virtually for the price of the bottle alone.
Sadly, the poor, the elderly and a great many pensioners hardly have enough money to live on and can only afford one meal a day. These people cannot afford to buy medicine.
People who read this warning will not buy these toys for their children or grandchildren.
In addition, we want to help parents in deciding what to buy and in sorting out what toys are unsuitable for their children.
In families where there are children of different ages, it is utterly impossible to sort toys for them to play with according to how suitable they are. It is best if we simply do not buy these products.
In fact those in France who have studied the subject in depth may well decide to buy British as the safest and tastiest option.
In my view, confidence in a product can be instilled by providing the consumer with reliable, but above all comprehensible information on the quality of the product they intend to buy.
For example, the reference to the category makes no sense for prepared products, especially kebabs, and we need to be flexible in our arrangements for meat for the catering trade, otherwise our restaurants will all go out and buy Brazilian meat.
As a result, the meat wholesalers, the SMEs referred to by Mr Souchet, have denounced the increased costs and, at the same time, compulsory labelling has given us an insight into the curiosities of the meat market: 40% of beef derives from animals which have done the rounds of Europe; when you buy a steak at the butcher's, little do you know that it has travelled 3000 kilometres, taking in 4 countries on the way: the country in which it was born, the country in which it was raised, the country in which it was slaughtered and the country in which it is consumed.
The mandatory labelling to be affixed to packaging will provide consumers with the all the information they need in order to be able to make an informed decision about what to buy: therefore, a limited amount of clear, effective information needs to be included if we are to help consumers and not make their life more complicated.
Should I buy a sucking calf, a normal calf or a heifer today?
We are effectively being asked to buy the bovine equivalent of a pig in a poke. This is not acceptable.
There is no doubt that consumers are tremendously concerned and I think we have to be able to allay that concern so that consumers can feel confident that the food they buy, anywhere in the European Union, will be fully traceable and good for whoever purchases it.
In Italy, selling unspecified adult cattle on the market would mean suppressing a sensibility which is linked to our cultural and food traditions, and so we would find ourselves in quite a difficult situation. Apart from anything else, considering that the price per kilogram of a cow carcass is considerably lower than that of a bullock carcass and even lower than that of a heifer, it would be difficult to justify the different sales prices to the consumer, who will naturally buy the unspecified adult meat out of ignorance.
Because I can tell the honourable Member that if a consumer buys minced beef in a butcher' s shop in Austria, he has the piece of meat minced in front of his own eyes, and in that case there are no problems either with origin or anything else.
These funds had earlier been earmarked for the purchase of 35 cars for members of the parliamentary council and the council members objected to this reallocation considering that the original decision to buy new cars should be reinstated in the interest of cost-effectiveness.
My warmest thanks to the Commissioner for his detailed reply to my question and for his reassurance that the funds provided by the European Union were not used to buy cars for use by certain Turkish MPs.
That is patently absurd and will ultimately mislead those who are liable to buy products advertised as EMAS-compliant.
We should not buy a pig in a poke; we should vote on our report tomorrow and give these gentlemen the opportunity to think again.
the second type of information is directly intended for citizens like you and me, who buy their meat every day.
For Portugal, where fires have destroyed large areas of forest, it is vital to increase appropriations in order to supplement national investment in building infrastructure, for example, and to help local authorities, private landowners' associations or wasteland management bodies to buy fire prevention equipment.
The report we are now considering attempts to defend the monetarist policies of the European Central Bank, particularly on price stability, whilst forgetting that we do not currently have a continually falling interest rate. On the contrary, we are in a phase of constant increases, which have very serious repercussions on the incomes of less well-off families who use bank loans to buy their own homes, which is what happens in Portugal.
It has in the past been possible to watch television across national borders. It is difficult to buy digital cards for existing pay TV.
Only, irrespective of whether these results are positive or less than positive, as I see it, it is imperative that we - and we must never forget this - convince smokers of their importance, with a view to encouraging them to buy cigarettes that meet these requirements.
It had been clear up until now: industry buys products produced in the EU and is then given export refunds in order to be able to compete on the international market.
Then they have a brainwave to the effect that industry will no longer buy agricultural raw materials on the EU market but on the world market instead, which the EU, for its part, will export its raw materials onto, and in dumping its goods will also be partly responsible for world market prices.
They think that industry will now be able to buy there, local products will stay where they are, and industry will then make refined products from the aforesaid local products and bring them onto the world market.
When I buy products elsewhere, which are available here in abundance, then of course I cannot assume that there will be no disruption to the market.
In my constituency they want to buy cheaper cars from France and the Netherlands.
For example, a pensioner friend of mine, a joiner by trade, asked me why, "instead of giving all this money to those countries to preserve their tropical forests" , we did not "make people buy fewer bedrooms and less furniture made from wood the production of which entails cutting down tropical forests?"
Secondly, there is usually nobody to apply the incentives to; in other words, because of the quotas, young farmers have no reason to work, given that the quotas have been used up for all the products and they must wait for a national stock to be created and distributed to young farmers or buy quotas, in which case, good luck to them.
Over the years, as the number of farms was reduced and farmers became more efficient, food obviously became more available to the poor who could buy it at a lower cost.
In our opinion, such an agreement must be based upon genuine reductions in emissions and not upon rich countries' (which are already responsible for most emissions) being given the right to buy an opt-out via trade in emission rights.
It is difficult for the consumer to appreciate that equipment that is cheap to buy but an 'energy guzzler' will prove expensive in the course of time.
Consumers, worried and disorientated, no longer know what to buy.
However, what are we trying to make them buy?
I put to you the question: just what shall we buy in the near future, if we fail to protect and defend creativity?
I have no idea what you will sell or buy when you no longer have any creative artists or authors but, in any case, Market Europe will not fare very well.
The directive also penalises consumers because it is quite possible that consumers will have to pay once when they buy a CD or a DVD and then again in the form of a levy.
Hundreds of thousands of cattle have been squashed into stalls in Europe for months because farmers cannot find anyone to buy their old livestock.
Subject: BSE and consumption of cattle bones The Spanish Minister for Health recently aroused concern among consumers in Spain when she advised 'housewives' not to buy 'cheap meat' and not to use cattle bones when making stock.
People' s health is a matter of the utmost concern. Food supplements can be an aid to health, so those who can afford it will gladly buy themselves good health.
But we must also be aware that it is easy to talk people who are insecure into feeling that they must buy themselves good health, and that quality is not always guaranteed.
No consumer should be put to great expense as a result of misrepresentation and no consumer should feel obliged to buy good health.
No one is forced to buy these products and those that do buy them tend to be well informed about their purchases.
Regarding on-board diagnostics, a motorcycle is often the first vehicle that a young person buys with limited resources and therefore this will make the vehicle more expensive.
Consumers must be able to choose whether or not to buy GMO products.
However, the results of this research are inevitably used by agri-foodstuffs corporations as the results strengthen their dominant role in the agriculture industry, because farmers must increasingly go through these corporations to buy seed etc.
During the conciliation procedure, the European Parliament did, however, insist on clear labelling and traceability rules for GMOs, which are essential for consumers who can only take a decision about whether to buy products containing GMOs if these products are properly labelled.
We should remember that we in the European Union and the United States of America are the main trading partners of Nigeria. We are the people who buy and sell almost all the things they want to buy and sell.
For example, I read about a mass slaughter programme which has allegedly been ordered by Mr Fischler. But I should point out yet again that this is an offer from the European Union to buy up meat for which there is currently no market.
In with practical ideas to promote real development: development of human resources, so that indigenous people acquire technical skills; development of vocational skills for rural production, so that people can grow, harvest, process, package and sell their goods for added value with which they can then buy their education, health and homes; building capacity through transfer of technology to SMEs, promoting use of sustainable energy, application of information technology, enhancing awareness of social education, health and human rights.
There is no shortage of funds available to the Iraqi authorities through the 'oil for food' facility to buy food and medicine for their people.
If, during a championship, clubs start to buy players left, right and centre, they are upsetting the balance of the championship.
Nor do we have enough money to avail ourselves of the instruments of mass communication, which means that we cannot buy advertising space or write scripts for publicity spots on TV. It is therefore entirely logical that we should use the existing communication structures in those societies as vehicles for our message.
Now communism has fallen and they are left with a miserable pension which is not even enough to buy a couple of pints of milk a day.
Farmers have to buy products of impeccable quality such as seed for their production.
Surely it is also only right and proper for consumers in the European Union to know when they buy a product how long it can be kept for and how long the active ingredients will remain effective?
Consumers must have the right to choose whether the products they buy have been animal-tested and to be warned if those products contain allergens, so the issue of labelling is essential.
Such participation cannot depend on whether people have enough money to buy a top-of-the-range computer and use it for their children's education. We must make absolutely sure to involve everyone.
As regards research, money particularly needs to be invested in market research, that is to say into what products consumers buy, and also, of course, in product research - for example, how can renewable energy be produced in the agricultural sector to counteract Europe's dependence on imports?
Not only is it not banned in the rest of Europe, but we are not even told it is present in the products we buy.
With regard to compensation, this must be paid to enable farmers to buy new livestock, and payments must be made quickly, since administrative red tape would be unacceptable in this crisis.
There is also the danger, with the golden share, of nationalising private investment: the citizens, the investors, buy companies which are under the thumb of the State, governments and therefore political parties.
It removes companies from market dynamics and governments continue to interfere, continue to think they know best who should buy a company, following certain lines of reasoning which are not the most effective for the market, thus penalising the citizens.
The refugees sell all their worldly possessions in order to buy a passage to Europe.
European aid in the field of healthcare should be discontinued, so that the poorest countries, such as India, can buy medicines against AIDS cheaply using our aid money.
I cannot recommend Amendments Nos 19 and 20, because they imply that third countries need not meet the obligation to inform passengers, even if they buy tickets in the European Union.
It proposes to take no particular initiative but to go to the great world supermarket for agricultural surpluses and buy the proteins we need as cheaply as possible.
This includes full transparency in giving livestock farmers details of the composition of compound feedingstuffs that they buy for their animals.
Farmers would otherwise buy their feed elsewhere: only with this information can they get the seal of approval.
I support voluntary collection, processing and removal, with due consideration for the environment. This sends out the message to consumers, at the time when they buy new products, that the producers actually took their responsibilities seriously.
The tobacco giants hired some of the best lobbyists money could buy to fight this legislation every step of the way, but the European Parliament was not for turning.
In fact, in order to give them a nicer meal, I had bought tins of a different type of cat food to that which I usually buy, and put them down for the cats to eat.
With regard to the buy-up scheme, I would like to say that it is not an aim in itself to buy up animals in order either to put them into cold storage or subsequently destroy them.
Talking about contamination, mad cow disease or infected meat does nothing to encourage the consumer to buy beef or veal.
It would be more sensible to buy these animals in order to destroy the meat. Thirdly, encouraging extensive production makes sense but this must be accompanied with a special premium entitlement for small farms, which will not benefit from these incentives because they cover too small an area.
We should buy the fish and ensure we are getting good value.
When we buy these fish they belong to the European Union and should be shared out amongst the fishermen on the same basis as all the other fish that the Union controls, in order to create a balance.
Commissioner Lamy has been accused of many things in bringing this forward: of a cynical attempt to buy votes in the WTO; of seducing developing countries into untrammelled free trade; of seeking to divide the solidarity of the ACP countries; of robbing the poor to pay the poorest.
The Council regulation, based on the slogan 'everything but arms' , is therefore, the height of hypocrisy because the additional income that Sudan, for example, will make as a result of the additional exports that we are giving it the opportunity to make, will buy it additional arms with which to fight the Christians in the south of the country.
The current system of production-related aid is not only stimulating the human and environmental desertification of the southern part of our continent, but is also making the work of those who adulterate olive oil easier, enabling them to cheat the Community budget, cheat consumers of their right to buy a natural, high-quality product, and cheat the farmers.
I hereby announce that if private companies are allowed to use their money to buy political parties at European level, our group will not vote for this report at the end of the day.
I completely agree with the measures that are proposed in the resolution: we need to inform consumers not to buy products that are known to be made or produced through the work of these children. We need to ask for a fair price and practice fair trade.
They produce hardly any goods that anyone wants to buy apart from military equipment.
Mr President, my favourite Commissioner, when I bought new tyres for my car six months ago I decided to buy tyres with a 71 decibel noise rating.
Financial compensation for rehabilitation is important, but we should remember that you can never buy back innocence.
I remind her that the costs cannot be a real obstacle, since these signatures are inexpensive. One can buy the cheapest ones for EUR 20 or EUR 30.
But why should this agency only be funded by persons who buy a certain quantity, 150,000 tonnes of oil or more? Why should it not be funded by everyone involved in the fuel transport sector?
This is a war that is fed by a stream of smuggled diamonds and oil: sufficient to buy vast quantities of arms and hold the civilian population hostage.
They are scarcely allowed to take visual artists' work on commission. For the most part, they have to buy such works.
If these smallest galleries have to buy works of art and are then - as anticipated in this proposal - unable to resell them three years later, and if perhaps, only after that period, have to sell them for less than their purchase price, they are bearing a risk and are losing out on two counts, namely in terms of both the price and of the resale rights.
Who will then buy the works of unknown artists?
Currently, if European citizens wish to go and buy a new car in another country, they have to get special insurance cover for the period when they pick up the car from the dealership or the factory and bring it back to their own home country.
This will only happen if consumers can buy goods and services and be confident and secure that if problems arise they can be resolved easily.
Consumers are also increasingly tempted to buy even more expensive items across borders, like washing machines, fridges, financial services and cars.
We can shop in a larger market and often buy goods up to a third cheaper.
Insurers should be able to provide insurance for a maximum of 30 days for anyone who wishes to buy a vehicle registered in another Member State and drive it back to their own country to re-register it there.
Is it possible, prior to the changeover, to buy euros electronically, for example through transactions on the Internet whereby certain quantities are set aside.
The idea is for there to be a joint fund, to which several countries have already contributed and which will be used to buy medicines wholesale at low cost, which will therefore solve this part of the problem regarding price-related access, provided that the necessary funds are in place. For the time being, however, the funds are still very limited.
In the Netherlands, we remember all too well how the city of Amsterdam had to buy back the domain name www.amsterdam.nl for an extortionate sum of money, because that name had already been claimed by a pornography business.
As this is a body which is regulated under US law, they are already in the process of registering the ".EU" domain and allowing people to buy ".EU" domains as well.
Instead of campaigning actively for new forms of electricity generation the individual consumer is first asked to buy cleaner energy at a different price from another supplier.
That section is keen to buy weapons with EU subsidies. They continue to reject an arrangement whereby Albanian becomes the language of administration and education for that part of the country where the Albanian-speakers live.
Where and when have our people demonstrated in favour of being able to buy cheap land in the countries of Eastern Europe?
Perhaps they are worried that, because it is so small, a property developer could come and buy up the whole of Malta.
Subject: High-speed tyres in Sweden In April this year, when many car owners in Sweden were about to buy new summer tyres, an absurd situation arose.
This rule runs counter to the very objective of the ecopoint system, i.e. to protect the environment by reducing NOx emissions. It acts as an incentive to buy and use environmentally-friendly lorries.
Releasing terrorist prisoners and seeking to buy them off with places in rigged government is exalting terrorism and not eliminating it.
Protecting users of air transport, i.e. passengers, and guaranteeing their safety, health and consumers' rights are becoming more and more important as air transport increases, especially as the new possibilities for travellers to book and buy airline tickets via the Internet offer advantages but also pose risks.
Responsible, adult consumers, getting information from product labels, are meant to decide for themselves what they buy.
. (FR) In the last few years, the news has highlighted food scandals and consumers are rightly demanding to be very well informed about the products that they buy.
One might therefore question the usefulness of a resolution adopted by Parliament, when the present dictator is then welcomed with as an honoured guest of our governments, and when he continues to receive subsidies that allow him to buy the arms that keep him in power.
Airbus is another good example of what can be achieved by exposure to international competition, if we are not simply content for other people to make a good product that we can buy or even use free of charge like the GPS.
They said the Label alone would probably not achieve much because, when consumers buy computers and similar goods, unfortunately they do not pay attention to energy consumption so much as to various other criteria.
The production of arms as an economic activity, to make profit by means of exporting to regions where people want to buy those weapons, means that money is considered more important than human life.
A good example is the decision against OPEL Nederland to defend the right of consumers to buy a car without hindrance in a Member State in which prices are lower; other, more recent examples are an analogous decision against Volkswagen and the setting-up of an enquiry into mobile telecommunications prices charged by roaming operators.
I believe we will in the foreseeable future have a situation where customers buy insurance or banking services over the Internet not from a local bank but across the border in a neighbouring country and that the Internet is an excellent way of making comparisons in this field.
It has actually been rather humiliating to discuss this matter, but that is why it is all the more gratifying that the EU has now done something in this area and, for example, totally untied the funds, which means that developing countries can buy wherever it is best and cheapest to do so.
The reason for this is the lack of spending power in those countries to buy these medicines.
The manufacturing companies that used to buy energy from Chernobyl, and by means of which it was possible to sustain such a colossal complex of nuclear reactors, are, since the collapse of the Soviet Union, largely non-existent.
The population of the Ukraine is so impoverished that it lacks the purchasing power to be able to buy any substantial amount of electricity as a consumer.
My fear is that financial penalties would not resolve the imbalance between rich and poor countries, and might, to some extent, even allow the rich countries to buy off their breaches of obligations.
Rights of the consumer being defined on the basis of purchasing power is not an adequate way to develop a cohesive social Europe. It is a Europe where politics is denigrated because it is simply based on people's capacity to buy or not to buy.
Competition also opens up the possibility of us being in a position, in the future, to buy in transport services more cheaply, without a local authority being able to evade its responsibilities in the process.
I can see the opportunity of using the resources saved by buying-in transport at more favourable rates to buy in more transport in the future, thereby making short-distance transport more attractive and achieving all that was said at the outset, namely making transport so attractive, that more people will use it in the future.
Indeed smuggling - if it is smuggling to buy cheap cigarettes in one country of the Union in which the tax on them has been paid and sell them in another country in the Union in which they are more expensive, which in my view it is not, it is the normal working of the single market, but insofar as it is smuggling or if the tax is not paid, as in the case of England, where the situation will not change and which has a serious cigarette smuggling problem, with 50% of cigarettes smoked in England smuggled in, precisely because the tax costs as much as the price of the cigarettes, the situation will not be affected in England because the Commission proposal will not affect prices in Belgium, Holland or France, which is where the smuggled cigarettes come from.
It sounds environmentally aware to blame the consumers who buy packaged food or packaged products. However, those consumers do not create waste themselves, but are left with it following their purchases.
They become the victim of conditional sales, because these days, it is often impossible to buy anything without wrapping.
Commissioner, Mr President, just as certain small-scale conflicts receive poor media coverage, so certain categories of what are known as light weapons could be said to receive poor legislative and financial coverage. I mean that the legislation regulating them is insufficient and that they are cheap to buy.
At the top there is a small village where you can buy food, water and "souvenirs".
With the money I had on me I calculated that I could buy ten Kalashnikovs or three rocket launchers.
The only problem was how to get them home through customs, so I did not buy them!
That proportion wanted to buy arms with EU subsidies intended for peace.
We want SMEs to really buy into e-commerce, into the new possibilities afforded to them by enhanced electronic communications.
The BBC highlighted the apparent ease of bribing West African officials to buy genuine papers to enable children to be taken to Europe.
Sadly, it is now very obvious that the commitments given at Abuja were a sham. It would seem that Mugabe thinks he can make a few promises, buy a little more time and then carry on with his repressive policies while the economy of a once prosperous Zimbabwe collapses.
Therefore, when you decide, at the beginning of your presidency, to buy a drink, I can understand the concern of the Irish half of your nature, which has to pay. So, if I may, I would say to you that if you want to be honest and keep your promises, you will not buy just one drink for just one person, but you will have to buy 626 drinks - one for each Member who is here.
Tax incentives should also be guaranteed so that disadvantaged consumers can also buy environmentally friendly products.
What will happen if taxes are increased is that consumers on lower incomes will be forced to buy cheaper contraband cigarettes from third countries which are possibly even more damaging to their health.
These resellers could be supermarkets, for example, and they would exploit the price differentials to buy vehicles in countries where the prices are lower and then sell them in Member States where prices are higher, thus helping to create a genuine single market.
We therefore deemed it necessary to adopt a more radical approach in order to bring about greater integration of the markets, making it genuinely possible for consumers to buy vehicles abroad.
In addition, block exemption makes intermediaries' work much easier: one example is that of Virgin Cars, which buys vehicles on behalf of consumers and will now be able to find the best deal for consumers more easily.
Would it not be much better for them to be able to go and buy cars in Holland and sell them to consumers there, rather than have what could be a random solution which would actually dissipate the impact of the dealers' independence that he wants to give them?
Last, but not least, the general regime does not offer provisions which are crucial in the car sector to ensure benefits for the consumer. This is the case with the so-called availability clause, which allows, for instance, a British consumer to buy a right-hand-drive car in a left-hand-drive country.
We are therefore faced with a legal system which forces Member States either to stop implementing the measures that they consider essential for protecting their nation' s public health, or to buy the right to do this.
French and German utilities are able to buy UK power companies, yet it is impossible to have reciprocal opportunities to buy into EDF or acquire whole companies.
This is just one example of the favours being done to the private sector. In Greece, the Public Power Corporation is forced to buy electricity at a loss from private companies, just so that they can enter the market.
The regulation on tobacco, as last amended, makes provision for tobacco producers to buy back quotas allocated to other producers, who are leaving the sector, in order to improve their business and their financial position.
We can only buy back the quotas which are not bought by other tobacco farmers.
However, I must also point out that this is an entirely voluntary programme; no one is forced to buy quotas.
Adoption of this European legislation will ensure that his trade, which is primarily aimed at Germany, will fizzle out because consumers will be able to buy safe vitamins and minerals at the chemist or the supermarket anywhere in Europe.
Food supplements can make a positive contribution to health. Anyone who can afford it is keen to buy good health.
The people who write them fear that they will no longer be able to buy over 300 food supplements that their good health depends on.
Why should we have to prove that they are safe when people buy them every day and believe that their health depends on them?
In Germany you can go into any drugstore at all, into any supermarket, and you will be perfectly free to buy vitamins, calcium or whatever you want in various different dosages.
For each and every product we buy - for all our cosmetics, our pharmaceutical products, our artificial sweeteners - we expect proof of safety.
I tell all the people who call me that none of the products they can now buy will be taken off the market.
I shall ensure that they are informed in future about any product they buy and whether it is safe.
In Sweden, as in the UK and Ireland, individuals can buy many preparations with strengths up to the maximum recommended daily intake over the counter.
When anyone goes into a chemist's shop and buys vitamins, the chemist will say, 'Don't take too much, and please read the enclosed instruction leaflet'.
He wants to buy votes in steel-producing areas come November and is so desperate to do so that he will gladly sacrifice his international credibility - and we in the EU and others elsewhere in the world are meant to pay the price!
That means that people must obtain sufficient income from paid employment, if they are to be in a position to buy products in the first place.
You all know about those special offers just before Christmas, when big companies buy 10 000 fridges in the Pacific Rim which are then marketed any old how through some kind of agent, and then, all of a sudden, once the fridges have been sold this agent and importer disappear and the SMEs who then have to foot the bill are the ones that suffer.
We will otherwise not be able to prevent the situation arising where young people may well be unable to buy swastika banners over the Internet, but can do so in the nearest flea market.
One effective means would be premiums appealing to the fishermen, which the European Union and the Member States together could use to buy up fishing tonnage and either destroy it, sell it, or use it for purposes other than fishing.
It was made very clear that unless we invest this development finance in the rural economies of poor countries and boost their agricultural production, we will have a breeding ground for deprivation, terrorism and internal conflicts. This is because these are the people, the majority of them living in rural areas, who are too poor to grow their own food and too poor to buy the EU's surplus food.
It is as if social control were a guarantee of quality when a local shopkeeper buys meet from a hunter to sell.
There was one particular one that caught my fancy, which I thought I might like to buy.
The drought problem is, however, a regional problem and has the negative effect of making it more difficult to buy food in the region in order to assist Zimbabwe.
We boosted this trend by using financial support primarily to buy new, more efficient ships instead of on measures which would have encouraged the people concerned to do things differently.
I think that this draft for a new block exemption regulation will provide a broader base for small and medium-sized undertakings, as well as giving consumers the opportunity to buy on better terms by improving the market situation.
They only buy cars relatively infrequently. This across-the-board approach will be good for consumers and I encourage you to make sure that those independent dealers really have the business security they need to invest and take advantage of your proposals.
In other words, those who have the money can buy the security the state is unable to guarantee.
Although no longer a youngster, as president of the Pensioners' Party, I dream of being able to buy the car of my dreams: a Peugeot 206 CC sports car, a Spider, and I wish this dream could come true not just for me but for all pensioners.
According to Mr Fischler, those countries would be obliged to produce GMO crops in order to increase their productivity. They would have no choice, and we, for our part, would be obliged to buy them and eat them for the sake of assisting development.
Given the successive food crises we have experienced, the 25% rule on the labelling of foodstuffs should be abolished and consumers suffering from allergies should be given full information on the foodstuffs they buy.
I would simply ask you to pick up the telephone and claim to be the owner of a supermarket in your country, telephone another Member State, such as France, Germany or the United Kingdom, and say that you want to buy sugar.
Consumers are coming of age and will increasingly value the cars of the future in terms of their safety for their occupants and for pedestrians, and will choose which to buy on that basis.
In fact, whether rich or poor, consumers pay an identical amount of tax on products they buy - nearly 20% of the price of most products in France.
You do not buy a computer every day, so there is no problem there at all, because those prices have been lowered.
It is also a question of consumers' fundamental right to be able to choose what they buy and what they eat.
It is then up to the consumer to choose whether or not to buy genetically modified food.
Mr President, my dear Madam, I would be delighted to discuss this issue because the Commission takes the overall view that there is no sense in using large sums of Community money to buy new ships and that it would be better to use the money so that poor, small fishermen facing serious economic difficulties have more of a chance in the future.
. (PT) Consumers' rights to be informed about the products they buy cannot be undermined by the interests of multinationals, who want to disguise the use of GMOs in agricultural and food production.
I am in favour of a directive which gives consumers information that is verifiable and meaningful, so that they are then in a position to decide for themselves whether or not to buy food containing GM material.
However, it is to be feared that as usual, many consumers, mainly those on a low income, will buy the cheapest products. For them, paying attention to possible negative effects is a luxury they cannot afford.
Consumers can be vulnerable to several problems when they buy rights to use immovable properties on a timeshare basis.
Firstly, certain unscrupulous vendors and agents use aggressive marketing techniques, which either mislead or place undue influence on consumers so as to induce them to buy, often to their detriment.
We know that this marvellous communication medium, the Internet, can be used today to order revisionist magazines, buy tapes and CDs glorifying the Third Reich, preach anti-Semitism and, since 11 September, in the name of freedom of opinion, devote entire chat forums to outpourings of anti-Arab and Islamophobic invective.
People are under the illusion that they can buy a holiday home cheaply for the exact period they want to take their holidays.
Large, profitable companies can buy up other companies.
It calls on countries which export arms to respect the embargo laid down by the UN Security Council, although we know that if a faction wants to buy arms it will certainly find them on the market.
Market-related price relationships have made it advantageous to buy imported oilseed cake, especially soya meal, but climatic risks and changes to production in those countries from which we supply ourselves make the EU all too vulnerable.
. (NL) Packaging is what the consumer is left with when he buys a new product.
This reliance causes us serious strategic problems, but also public health problems, since it is difficult under these conditions to establish product traceability, which could lead us, for example, to buy GMO soya whether we want to or not.
They are clearly positive for the consumer, who can buy goods and services at a very advantageous price, and it does not matter whether for a limited period of time or not.
Saddam Hussein still possesses huge quantities of biological and chemical weapons and three years ago he attempted to buy weapons-grade uranium from Serbia.
Feed operators must ensure that the raw materials they buy are safe.
It has become clear from the latest reports from, and the latest difficulties with, the United Nations, with African States, especially Somalia - countries who have, as it were, a gun put to their heads and who are told to eat or die, countries where the hunger of people in these countries is exploited as a pretext for forcing them to buy genetically modified foodstuffs - that we are dealing here with a real lack of free choice.
The European Union, in cases such as this, buys local non-GM food, adhering to the principles and the rules of the recipient countries in a manner in keeping with the ethos of the Cartagena Protocol.
This is completely absurd, Commissioner, for the following reasons: milk producers exceed their reference quantity - in other words, they are producing milk - and this milk has not been subsidised - the Community allows the industry that buys their milk to immediately enforce preventive retention, in other words, even before a quota surplus is observed, a preventive retention of money is made to pay a fine on the quota.
In other words, our main premise is that it has been proved, without the need for a NERA study, that these goods - which are everyday items, which every woman and every man buys, in particular those from the poorer sections of the population - for example jeans, shirts, polo shirts, trainers and suchlike, are being offered for sale outside the EU by the same brand manufacturers at the same quality standards for half the price or even less.
Surely the reason we have so many of these counterfeit brands is because the genuine brands are prevented from being sold at the price that consumers want to buy.
Finally, a personal point, the public should be allowed to buy quotas because we want to involve the citizens in European activities and in saving the world.
Businesses that fall within the scheme can - if they fail to reduce emissions - buy emission rights on the market. Businesses that do not fall within the scheme will need to switch off installations or even shut down divisions.
The number of single companies that would have to buy allowances depends on how the initial allocation is made. The initial allocation must definitely be free of charge.
It is unthinkable that an entire market should be created in order to trade in pollution as a commodity, a market on which, instead of reducing their emissions, companies can buy surplus emissions from other companies which are within their limits.
Livestock farming in Greece is on death row and Greek consumers are forced to buy imported long-life products because it takes too long to get fresh milk to Greece from the Member States of the EU; and yet Greece has the potential to increase its output to meet the demand for fresh milk.
On the second point: following the public call for tender, which was published in the Official Journal, the Commission - and specifically the SINCOM Council - decided to conclude a framework contract with SAP to buy SAP R/3 software licences worth EUR 1.5 million; that was the value of the order including the associated service agreements.
Passengers on package holidays will therefore benefit in the same way as those who only buy a plane ticket.
It is crucial to understand that the majority of those going hungry are not city-dwellers who can buy food but rural producers of food crops.
Only access to the markets at reasonable prices can provide these poor peasant farmers with a sufficient income to modernise their production, buy tools and gain access to chemicals, to irrigation, and to better seeds.
Let us use European money - EUR 10 to 15 million would be enough - to buy up and destroy southern Africa's ivory stocks, and if the majority of the European governments will not agree to that, then the NGOs will have to collect enough money to stop all the elephants being sold off.
However, recent scandals in several Member States have shown how recommendations by journalists to buy or sell a specific share can influence its market price to their advantage.
In other words, if financial journalists advise the public to buy shares in a certain company and if they themselves own shares in that company, they must declare how many shares they own.
After all, we are simply asking them to be transparent about their investment in stocks they are recommending the public buy.
Yes, European consumers are entitled to be able to choose what food they buy and eat.
Consumers have the right to be informed of the presence of GMOs in the products they buy, even if the GMOs are not detectable.
Every time you fly, you can buy a climate certificate to balance out the emission of CO2 from your trip.
The Dutch delegation in the Group of the Party of European Socialists has decided to back this initiative and to buy climate certificates in Strasbourg this week for their plane trips.
However, many of these different channels of communication are now controlled by the same media conglomerates, which can thereby cross-promote these services and provide incentives or pressure advertisers to buy space or air time in other media they control.
Rumours have it that the current owners of The Scotsman - the Barclay Brothers - are trying to buy The Herald.
However, excessively restrictive application of regulations may threaten the future of some producers and specialist suppliers such as health food shops, possibly encouraging consumers to buy from unregulated internet suppliers.
I want a guarantee that when I go into my local health food shop the echinacea or ginseng I buy is of a high quality and standard.
This means that the next time I go and buy my echinacea, I have a 25% chance of actually purchasing what I want.
It does not matter to us, because we can buy other products with our large amounts of money.
They were conducted like a commercial transaction. The rich were able to buy votes from the poor without the electoral commission being able to stop them.
In its decision, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy also addressed the fact that we rich Europeans buy - for considerable sums it is true, but still for small change - fishing rights from poorer countries.
This money must also be used to buy better equipment, not to destroy boats.
I would simply like to tell you that there is a continent that is prepared to buy and sell, that is prepared to live in harmony with democratic beliefs, with the defence of human rights and environmental protection.
If labelling were honest, consumers would not buy the products. This is also the reason why there is fraudulent labelling.
Every single farmer must be careful about what he feeds to his animals, from whom he buys them, and how quickly he brings them and his old stock together.
I think it is very important that consumers will in future be able to have greater certainty that prices are telling the ecological truth and that consumers need not buy new hardware with every new software program.
If Polish and Dutch farmers are given the same right to buy land from each other, one can hardly call this equality.
Madam President, as an Independent Socialist I was sceptical, and in August I did not believe that enlargement would succeed, but I must admit that I have lost my bet with the President-in-Office of the Council; so I shall have to buy Mr Fogh Rasmussen a beer after this debate.
It seems that for some Member States, enlargement of the EU boils down to an opportunity to buy as big a market as possible for their own domestic companies as cheaply as possible.
We must continue to buy from the regions themselves as an absolute priority, even if the price is slightly higher.
The Lamy strategy would save lives, and pharmaceutical companies will not be losing revenue because the people in these countries are too poor to buy the medication as it stands.
The rich countries buy cheap agricultural produce and sell expensive industrial goods, including medicines.
EU companies will be able to buy up Chilean fish quotas on fully exploited fish stocks; they will also have free access rights to Chile's under-exploited fisheries resources.
If we promote cleaner lorries, transport companies will be encouraged to buy environmentally friendly vehicles.
Mr President, apart from soldiers and sailors it used only to be the richest and most powerful of people who found themselves a long way from home. Only a small, privileged group was able to buy goods that were produced a long way away.
This is one of the weakest things that we have in the EU: people are quite happy to buy equipment and technology, but where is the technical support if anything goes wrong?
I hope we will soon have every EU citizen wearing what I would like to call the 'Hand C' not a 'PC', a wristwatch that is a combination of a PC, mobile phone and an LCD screen that will enable us to communicate audiovisually, process data, buy, sell and pay by voicemail, watch any sport and listen to our favourite music.
Mr Silvio Berlusconi has issued a letter giving money to students to buy computers.
I propose that, at the same time as we intensify the inspection programme, there should also be a revision of the mandate of the 'oil for food' programme, which would make it possible to buy local products, thereby encouraging the Iraqi economy to make a fresh start, and which would also give responsibility for distributing food rations to the UN World Food Programme.
Consumers benefit from free trade because they can buy cheaper and better products and of course we must achieve a high level of consumer protection.
Confidence is the engine of economic growth. Consumers must have confidence in products or they will not buy them.
We must work towards a situation where it no longer matters to consumers whether they buy their products in the Netherlands or Greece. That is not easy.
If we want the internal market to work we need flanking measures to promote consumer confidence, particularly in cross-border shopping, and we know that in online shopping consumers still have a tendency to buy in their own home market.
Internal market rules should also promote the confidence of consumers to buy goods and services without being put off by national borders that may lie between buyer and seller.
Companies have to produce goods that customers can afford to buy, at a profit, otherwise they cannot continue to employ people.
I have been into businesses where I have been told, 'This is the component we are making today and this is the one we can now find in China or Indonesia. They are the same quality, but I can buy this fully finished product for the price I paid for the raw material in the United Kingdom.'
In fact, each time that we talk about these issues, it seems to be almost a form of hatred for the farmers who buy and use phytosanitary products to guarantee their crop yields and exclude qualitative problems caused by pests and diseases.
Consumers demand high quality, and that is what they will buy.
If they do not buy a product that is produced in the European Union because we have banned various chemicals, they will buy it from outside and this will put our farmers at a disadvantage.
The designation 'substances and preparations' by no means covers the use of CMR substances in consumer products, that is to say in those products with which we, as consumers, in the first place come into contact and through which we are exposed to these dangerous substances, for example when we buy toys, textiles, new flooring etc.
We have made so little progress that work on one of the key elements of a defence policy, that of creating a European defence industry, has not just stopped, but has gone into reverse. We must be aware that Member States buy around 60% of their arms not from each other, but from the United States.
It is important for us to guarantee free movement for detergents, but I think it is still more important that the detergents we put on the market should damage neither the environment nor people's health and that, as consumers, we should always know the nature of the everyday items we buy in the shops.
The four big companies together buy almost half the coffee beans produced around the world.
We should make that clear to those who might say that if the European space sector does not measure up they will buy elsewhere.
The fact of the matter is that those who pollute are engaged in economic activities producing goods or services which other people want to buy, presumably at the price at which they are offered.
This requires a minimum of two things; supermarkets to sell the products and consumers to buy them.
We are looking today in the world from which I emerged, at a situation where diversity of output is growing and where the power of those who control that output and buy the rights in it is also growing.
We also believe that consumers are entitled to opt not to buy vaccinated meat.
How can we have a free market when there are three companies with EUR 10 billion or more at their disposal to buy up other companies?
It is because they can buy on the market the service that is best for them.
The main achievement in this report is the introduction of electricity 'labelling', so that consumers will in future know where their electricity comes from and how it is produced, so that they will finally be able to decide if they want to buy nuclear electricity or electricity generated from renewables.
It is not a product that you are free to choose whether or not to buy.
Payment for green power, which consumers are allowed to buy from a different producer from their traditional regional supplier, usually leads to chaos.
Where is it decreed that we must pay in dollars for the oil and gas we buy from Russia, Saudi Arabia or Iran?
If we are to restore consumer confidence, consumers must be able to say to themselves, when they buy meat or any other food, that they need have no qualms about believing the information provided on the product label.
There is a lot to be said for the view that the best inspector is the person who is to buy and eat the product.
The proposed measures reduce the income of rice producers by increasing the profits of the trading industries, which will buy raw materials at derisory prices, given that the intervention prices will have a proportionate knock-on effect on commercial prices, without compensating for this reduction, despite the Commission's allegations to the contrary, allegations which are groundless, given that the rate of compensation is calculated on the basis of the difference between the intervention price before the revision and the private storage price after the revision.
To be able to provide one single information document valid throughout the EU is, though, surely to the advantage of businesses that introduce shares, or make offers to buy, on European stock exchanges.
In addition, consumers are given the necessary information, so that they are informed when they want to buy a product.
Once that base is secured it is then a matter of ensuring that the consumer is correctly informed so that he or she is able to choose whether or not to buy GM products.
We also know that these countries are certainly in no position to buy expensive seed from the US genetic engineering industry.
Consumers must be able to be certain that all the GMOs that are present in the products that they buy will have been strictly evaluated from the point of view of safety.
They will then be able to choose to buy the products that they want.
The labelling of all genetically modified food and animal feed will give consumers in Europe what 93% of them are asking for: the choice of whether or not to buy GM products.
We must make it clear that European consumers are entitled to decide for themselves whether they want to buy GMOs or not.
For the GM industry, the litmus test is not to do with whether or not they get authorisation from the EU, nor is it the procedural hurdles; it is whether or not consumers will buy these products.
(DE) Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, ladies and gentlemen, consumers have to have adequate information about the content and composition of the food that they buy.
Indeed, will private individuals also be able to buy them?
I am nevertheless one of those who think that we cannot speculate on pollution and allow the rich to buy a right to pollute from those who cannot afford to develop.
Such a trade would turn allowances into a commodity and allow more developed countries to buy 'pollution quotas' from less developed countries, enshrining the status of the former as 'privileged polluters' and stunting the development of the latter.
Paradoxically, the iron and steel companies would have to burn off their blast furnace gases, thus increasing CO2 emissions, not to mention the emission rights they will have to buy back from the electricity companies.
Mr President, we have been arguing over this subject for ten years, and I would not miss a round, even if I had to buy a ticket to enter the House, not least in order to be able to bear witness that we are still at the same point.
Although I see that as an encouragement, this does not add up to extra money. It strengthens farms' liquidity, enabling them to buy in feedingstuffs and sow new crops.
If we still tied procurement to European producers, the WTO agreement that Third World countries should be able to buy generic medicine would not have carried much real importance.
European citizens consume millions of copies of disks and books and buy millions of tickets to the cinema and concerts every year.
If all existing patents had to be validated, then all software development would be restricted, limited and increasingly inhibited, since all small and medium-sized enterprises and programmers would be forced to buy rights or licences and virtually pushed out of the market.
That patentability has stimulated investment to develop those inventions into products that the world wants to buy.
Now you are trying to get us to buy the idea that, as your term of office in this Commission draws to a close, you have actually achieved this exalted objective, but, Commissioner, things in the garden are not quite as rosy as the glowing colours in which you have depicted them would suggest.
You did not allow us to buy back Alcan, even though you could have done so.
They should not be forced to buy professional advice they neither need nor want.
Such companies have the financial means to buy patents and build up vast portfolios. This allows them to market some of their inventions whilst blocking the development of others.
We should also remember that the EU, in addition to being by far the biggest donor of development aid, buys, for example, 80% of Africa's agricultural exports.
How can we make countries like the countries of Africa understand our point of view, when their food crops have been ruined for years by the dumping effects of European Union export subsidies (the subsidies which made battery hens from Brittany cheaper to buy than local chickens in Dakar market)?
British customs services tried to stop British citizens using their rights to go to France to buy the fine wines for which that country is rightly renowned.
The Third World had to supply cheap raw materials, and subsequently buy expensive industrial products from Europe.
They therefore require different treatment to normal market players who either buy or sell a given product on the market.
As Commissioner Monti has said, we are not talking about a supermarket one cannot go into a supermarket to buy the services of a doctor but, within a market context, clients also have the right to benefit from the possibility, for example, of competition within a sector in which there are more professionals than there is demand for them.
I believe that, ultimately, customers will see that as a crucial factor in their decision to buy, so that they can say, ‘here are engines that adhere to emission standards that are not yet in force – that could be the machine for me’, and bringing them onto the market at an early stage could represent a sales opportunity for the manufacturers.
I certainly do not begrudge the inhabitants of Corsica, who speak a language other than French, greater autonomy and even the right of secession, but I am not willing to buy their favour by keeping the price of an unhealthy stimulant artificially low.
Secondly, we are concerned in our committee about the internal market and simplifying the regime which allows citizens to go and buy a car from another country and have their existing insurance extended for 30 days while they bring that car home and have it re-registered.
You – any consumer – can easily get practical experience of this. All you need to do is to buy a drink at a service station and then drive off.
But it cannot be right or acceptable that someone with money is able to buy a better life for themselves at the expense of someone else's health.
It is already illegal in 14 out of 15 EU countries for citizens to buy an organ from anyone else.
So, if we outlaw it in our own countries, why can anyone think it acceptable to buy human organs from other countries?
Patients from the European Union buy organs from third-country donors, thereby profiting from their helplessness in the face of extreme poverty.
The directive will affect you if you pay by credit card, if you hire a car, if you buy a television set on credit or if your bank account is overdrawn.
A multisided mechanism is therefore being constructed which even wants to involve and buy off independent organisations and foundations.
Only in this way can we guarantee that the internal market will function properly and that people can buy a car in the country they wish and vote with their feet.
In some Nordic countries, such as Finland, it is dreadfully expensive to buy a new, ordinary family car, just because of the registration tax.
Supermarkets too are being threatened if they want to buy meat from Spain and the Netherlands, and the French Government is refusing to take action.
If you buy your own services, meals, transport and so on, then you are in charge, you have a form of dignity and independence which too often is lacking in the relationship between state services and citizens.
I know that drivers travel hundreds of extra kilometres to buy cheap diesel fuel. Not only that, but they attach additional tanks to their lorries so as to be able to fill up with enough fuel to make their journeys that much more profitable.
At the same time, I am told that in the United Kingdom, if you buy a chicken sandwich, 85% of the chicken comes from Brazil or Thailand.
Surely it is good development aid policy for the so-called first world to buy from the developing countries their most valuable products, whether they are diamonds or prawns, and that the fruits of these sales should promote fundamental strategic sectors such as local agriculture.
There is fraud in order to line one's own pockets, fraud to buy one's friends and fraud in order to secure the future of one's own job, irrespective of corporate planning.
In Germany, if you buy a house or own a flat, you have to take out insurance against fire and the forces of nature, even though, in cases of doubt, it is only you who will be out in the cold. No doubt the situation is similar elsewhere.
Mr Gbagbo himself, who was very friendly and very pleasant and who, during a meal which we were invited to in the presidential palace itself, explained to us his view of the problem, he said things in the presence of many of us who were there – no less than 10 or 15 people – which I believe do not point in the right direction, such as, for example, that he had to strengthen his army and that he had plans to buy certain military materials in the countries of the East.
The terrible thought occurs to me: has a similar strategy been used to buy partnership with China?
It is inconceivable that we should think it possible to buy Putin by saying nothing about Chechnya, and the Chinese by supplying them with weapons, just in order to have a common position on the Security Council. That would be terrible.
Higher costs for the individual consumer might make food supplements too expensive to buy. The result would be higher sickness rates and increasing costs to society.
If I might use a rather laboured analogy, I do not buy a typewriter and then a computer if I am going to be putting my documents on the Internet.
I therefore want to see those who buy sex criminalised.
It makes no sense that when one buys a package deal all types of information is given on the hotel, meals, and also sometimes sight-seeing trips, offers of supplementary activities etc., but there is usually no information on precisely which airline is going to operate the flight.
Would it not be possible to require European tour operators to inform tourists who use their services of the precise identity of the airline they will be travelling with at the time they buy their tickets?
Finally, like others before me I would like to stress that yes, it is wrong that a passenger who buys a charter ticket does not know which airline he will be flying with.
It is a scandal that, in the interests of land management, American multi-millionaires can shoot elephants that need to be culled, whilst people of African origin are not allowed to buy and consume bushmeat in a managed trade.
Everyone knows that the pharmaceutical trusts are looking to make a profit, even at the expense of the poorest people, and for them there is no question of distributing medicines, even if the cost of developing them has been written off a hundred times, to sick people who do not have the money to buy them.
He cannot expect the citizens of Europe to buy a pig in a poke.
Specifically, my colleague, Mr Harbour, talks of the customer, but I prefer to use the word consumer, differentiating between the two classes of client: the final consumer, that is, the long-suffering citizen who has to watch television and radio programmes, and the intermediary, who buys the intellectual property rights, uses them and exploits them.
These two countries have also been able to block access to decommissioning funds, and thus these three companies buy up the other companies.
So why should the workers in those companies, the people, not have the right to monitor the decisions, why should they not have the right to force the billions in profits made thanks to the work done by them all to be used for something other than enabling the giants of industry to buy each other out, why should they not have the opportunity to force them to make the choices dictated by collective interests rather than just by those of the shareholders?
Many consumers will tell you that it is impossible to tell where the poultry meat comes from in the composite foods we buy throughout the European Union.
For the engine in our cars we buy only the best and most expensive petrol, but when it comes to the body, which is our own engine, without which we cannot exist and which is meant to work for at least 100 years without spluttering, most of us are completely indifferent to what we put into it.
Even putting aside the wider benefits that the European Union buys, the EU needs a budget consistent with its responsibilities.
Why do banks not have to respond directly and straight away when they have advised people, even shortly before a collapse, to buy ‘junk bonds’?
I propose to the honourable Member that we manage this transition, from poppy growing to fruit growing, as we now do for Greek tobacco, which we buy and burn.
The reason for this is that we would not buy a stolen bicycle, because it has been stolen – our principles would not allow it – but we would like a counterfeit Breitling watch or other counterfeit product, because it is cheap.
It is also we consumers who have to ensure that the protection of intellectual property rights is guaranteed, because we want the products we buy to be original and authentic and we do not want to be deceived by people who violate intellectual property rights.
The wrong signals are still being sent out to the young people of Europe when anyone can buy five grams of cannabis at a so-called coffee shop.
The gradual decoupling of subsidies from agricultural production and their conversion to Community charity completely subjugates small- and medium-sized farmers to the interests of big business and the food industry multinationals, which will also make full use of the WTO agreements to buy agricultural products at knock-down prices.
One female Member even referred to savings for the Community agriculture budget but it will have quite the opposite effect, since European manufacturers will have to buy tobacco from third countries leading to increased costs, lower employment and larger deficits of the Community trade budget.
EU citizens find it deeply offensive that nearly EUR 1000 million a year go to funding a crop that nobody would buy if it were not subsidised; a crop that does nothing but harm its consumers.
   . Consumers are entitled to demand that the food they buy and eat is as safe as it can be, and I fully support that principle but, in our anxiety to put in place regulations which will work, giving consumers the guarantees they require, we should not throw out existing measures which are already proving effective.
We have an obligation as legislators to create a legal framework that bolsters the confidence of our consumers in the food they buy and eat.
This report is also to examine the relation between the liability of shipowners and the contributions of those who buy crude oil, for calamities such as the wreck of the make it necessary that we again rethink the arrangements for liability at sea.
Internal demand has not been stimulated either; certainly it is not just because of the feeling of uncertainty as a result of globalisation, or the uncertainty as to how Europe will advance, but also because of the fears of terrorist attacks, that European consumers’ willingness to buy leaves much to be desired.
The truth of the matter is that this type of appalling activity occurs everywhere, given that it is a crime to buy, just as it is to sell, human organs and that there are fewer and fewer borders in international crime.
For example, if customers buy something over the Internet and the purchase is void, they want their money back, and if they cannot turn to the supplier, they should be able to turn to the bank, which had nothing to do with the basic transaction.
And it will be distorted still more if we protect monopolies that then buy smaller companies elsewhere in other countries.
Surveys demonstrate quite clearly a variety of different costs of different printer operating systems, all brought about by operators using these methods which oblige the consumer to buy printer cartridges over and over again, instead of reusing and refilling.
If they wanted to buy a fridge or a TV on credit, they would have had to leave it in the shop for two weeks before they could take it home.
Without going into detail, it strikes us that, even though the report is the result of compromises struck in the committee concerned, it is well-balanced and reflects our concerns that both lenders and borrowers should be held liable, at a time when marketing and invitations to buy on credit are extremely aggressive.
Allowances intended to reduce pollution, however, become in turn commodities that can be bought and sold and turn into rights to pollute that the richest countries can buy from the poorest.
Oil, which ought to be this large country's blessing, is in fact a curse because it is used mainly to buy arms and set up one power base against another.
Two years running we voted to allocate resources from underspent budget lines to buy this much-needed equipment.
Firstly, it would give consumers better choice and value when they buy spare parts.
The test mark allows the consumer to see that he can buy a very safe product.
They buy bonnets, headlamps and rear windows in countries like Turkey, Brazil and Korea.
Parliament has started to buy Fair Trade products. In Strasbourg we now receive Fair Trade tea, though in Brussels we still get Liptons tea.
General Motors should remember Henry Ford’s dictum that ‘cars don’t buy cars’, whereby he justified doubling his workers’ wages in order to stimulate demand.
We did not want a resolution about this issue, the reason being that, in a resolution, we would be forced to write: ‘We want all Europeans to trade in their cars straight away and make sure that they buy new Opels and Volkswagens’.
I hope that all MEPs will join me in condemning those who send 16-year old children, strapped with explosives, to blow themselves up together with innocent shoppers who have just popped out to buy something from the local cheese shop.
We now have the ludicrous requirement that a DIY retailer, for example, who buys in packaged goods and sells them on, is required to make returns detailing the net weight of the packaging of all such goods passing through his business, even though he never opens or discards any of the packaging.
Finally, I would also like to urge the Commission – pending the adoption of a legally binding code of good administration for all three institutions, which is provided for in the new constitution – to now buy into the voluntary common code which the Council and the Parliament are already applying. It would be right and proper that they should do that.
Ask yourself a question: would you buy a used car from this Commission?
Mr Yanukovich has proposed a compromise which at least buys some time to prevent a clash.
It means safer food across Europe; it means that if you buy a tomato in Ireland that has come from Spain you can guarantee the quality and safety of that product.
Other, still more important, things are, however, also ensured, namely consumers’ health, safety and security in connection with the foods they buy.
I come from a very cold country up in the north, so I am pleased to be able to buy fruit and vegetables in the winter too.
If someone goes to the Middle East and buys an Arabian stallion for stud purposes, they do not need to worry that it will arrive here in a poor condition.
With this fifth Directive it will be easier to obtain effective and valid civil liability insurance outside the country of residence, and to sell or buy a vehicle in another Member State.
I do not think it is enough to reprogramme what has already been allocated or even to buy fishing boats in Europe and give them to fishermen in the affected areas.
In Sweden, a situation existed a few years ago in which you could go into a back-street printer’s and buy a driving licence from your old country of origin and then go to the relevant Swedish authority and exchange the licence for a Swedish one.
The key is to stress to President Bush - while he is here, in Europe - as well as to other Member States that aid is not an opportunity to reduce First World agricultural surpluses, but that he should buy local with aid money.
If you cannot buy local, buy regional.
Moreover, it should be made clear in this specific case that ThyssenKrupp received funds and tax breaks from the Union when it decided to buy the Terni plant, and it gave an assurance that it would keep production in Italy and safeguard jobs.
Although we know today that you can do business only if customers are willing to buy, businesses go bust or move away if policies are not in place to create the right conditions for them, and my specific question to Commissioner Špidla is this: what will you do in order, in so far as possible, to limit the adverse effects of emissions trading on the steel industry?
Under the Kyoto Protocol, however, a steel industry that years ago invested resources to become one of the cleanest has to buy emissions rights from dirtier industries such as Russia’s.
A far better alternative would be to buy boats, suited to local purposes and needs, in the countries affected and in other neighbouring countries. This would also give the local economies a very badly needed boost.
Our money would buy something like 2500 boats in place of the 200 referred to here.
An alternative contribution would be to buy the vessels locally. This would simplify the relief effort and contribute to the development of the local economies of the countries hit by the tsunami.
I hope that, during my time here in the European Parliament, I shall also see Parliament become feminist, whereupon there will be a requirement for every other Member of this House to be a woman, for male violence against women to be higher on the agenda and for its no longer to be possible for men to buy women for money through the agency of prostitution; in other words, there will be a law prohibiting the purchase of sex in EU countries, as there is in Sweden.
We ask the Council to look again at whether this small contribution, which would buy a couple of flats in London, should not be made to enable us to have that political impact.
What other organs would it be possible to buy and sell in a market?
The European Parliament is prepared to buy the results of scientific research in these areas.
In Denmark, many farmers are bagging pollution permits in Natura 2000 areas. As a result, they will be able to earn a pretty penny when the government wants to buy them back.
Knowing this, people in our country rushed to buy sugar just before accession, and we are now in a situation where our sugar reserves are larger than those permitted in the EU. We are threatened with a sugar fine.
By looking at the labels on bottles of mineral water, consumers can perhaps judge whether or not to buy the product, but they cannot do the same for vegetables and cereals.
We note above all that the announcement made, three weeks from the French referendum, to lower VAT in the catering sector is a final, pathetic attempt to buy the French vote.
In fact, in some cases, Mr Staes, where, for example, the army or police of a country that is perhaps not necessarily a democracy asks for access to arms or to buy them and that same government, that same country, is faced with really very dangerous rebels who, for example, make use of human shields when attacking police stations or schools, it is extremely difficult, as a responsible politician, to make a choice.
In Poland it is still possible to buy extremely flavoursome varieties of apple that I have never seen, and undoubtedly never will see, in Brussels.
Indeed, it is not only the textile industry that is suffering from Asian competition: the origin of processed agricultural products needs to be made transparent so that consumers can find out from the label where the products they buy come from.
Those women are now so desperate that they are selling part of their food rations in order to buy wood in the markets to try to avoid the attacks they experience as they leave the camps to get firewood.
This refers in particular to privatisation and basic needs, given that it would appear futile, as Mr Watson said, for the markets of developing countries to be full of goods that the people cannot buy because they have no jobs or money with which to buy them.
Unfortunately, the EU seems to excel in poverty creation in pursuit of its own agenda: for example, paying cash to Mauritania, Angola and Mozambique for the right to fish out their coastal waters and impoverish their fishermen; or economic partnership agreements under which the European Union tries to buy poor nations’ acquiescence to its protectionist policies.
Last November, at President Barroso’s inauguration, I asked of this Commission: ‘Would you buy a used car from them?’.
I do not know about God – he has been around for a long time so he obviously has a healthy diet – but I know what I think and that is that the Lisbon Process, among other things, requires us to have wellinformed consumers who make real choices which increase the marketability of the products they buy.
Recent research carried out by ‘Which?’, the UK consumer association, has shown that 98 per cent of people that it spoke to want health and nutrition claims on food to be authorised so that they can be certain that the food they buy is indeed the product described on the packaging with the qualities that are attributed to that product.
That would lead to American companies, Japanese companies, or other companies patenting the very ideas that European software developers, European innovators, have come up with and forcing those same European innovators to have to buy them back.
I do not buy the argument that old small boats are unsafe and need replacing by public money.
Will the shelves now remain unreplenished, or will someone pay them compensation if they have to buy their products less cheaply elsewhere in the world?
Here in Europe, we enjoy the great advantage – and it is one of which I am glad – that our consumers are surely among the most mature in the world, and so they should be given the chance to decide what and how to buy, on the basis of far more information and with greater ease.
People are willing to buy and use the waste products resulting from this, of which chalk dust is one; they are not hazardous and the Landfill Directive is not meant to apply to them.
Having wanted to invest a total of 20 million in what is a 3.5 billion project, it gave notice of the intention to buy 5 million but paid only 2 million.
It would, after all, be very interesting to demand, at any rate for the future, the creation of a standard ‘made in Europe’ label, to which stringent criteria would apply, as a means of ensuring that what our consumers buy has been manufactured under the proper conditions, without causing massive damage to the environment and without the use of such things as child labour.
I want to ask Mrs Behrendt if she has asked a mother or father who have children and who do not have the money to buy the medicinal product.
To Mrs Grabowska I would like to mention, by the way, that fathers do actually go and buy medicines for their children: I did last time on Saturday at the Genvall pharmacy.
The second is property speculation, in particular that whereby leading families buy up properties or that whereby, if one is not careful, sites are destroyed.
The NGO Oxfam, for example, is operating income creation schemes so that people can afford to buy food. Oxfam has reduced the number of weak animals by buying them at a fair price and slaughtering them.
In March, the Government of Niger, relying on information from the national agency for the prevention and management of food crises, broadly supported by the Commission, released money to buy 42 000 tonnes of grain resold cheaply, and distributed food in return for work requiring high-intensity labour.
We buy up the fishing rights from the government, but those from whom we are really taking the fish, that is to say the fishermen in the villages, have no influence and seldom receive adequate compensation. Neither national parliaments nor the European Parliament has any influence worth mentioning, but is presented with a .
Yet they wanted us to buy back – to pay in order to buy back – our designations of origin.
The second component of our third proposal is the possibility for international passengers to obtain information about the main destinations in Europe and to buy direct tickets.
I should like to remind the House of the famous remark made by the former British Foreign Secretary, Ernest Bevin, in about 1945. He said: 'My idea of Europe is to go down to Victoria Station in London and buy a ticket to anywhere I damn well like'.
The aim is not only for people to be able to buy a ticket to anywhere in Europe, but also for them to arrive there quickly.
Elsewhere, it is becoming more and more difficult to buy tickets for foreign destinations further afield.
This equation is particularly stupid, because even an absolute imbecile knows that it is not the textile producers who buy Airbuses but the airlines.
I can even tell you a secret: when these companies buy aeroplanes, it is because they need them, and they expect to fund these purchases from their activities, not by selling shirts.
Consumer prices are also involved. We cannot ignore the fact that our consumers in the European Union like being able to buy low-price textiles.
That, as well as many other unreasonable factors – forced labour springs to mind, as do inhumane working conditions – result in our markets being flooded by Chinese finished products at prices for which our own companies can sometimes hardly buy the raw materials.
Many of our families save hundreds of euros a month because they can buy goods of very acceptable quality at a very reasonable price.
Many of those who have today expressed their indignation are political representatives of people who profiteered in my country and other new Member States, since it was possible to buy cheap property, cheap shares in businesses, because they could pay our workers 10 or more times less than theirs for the same work.
Poorer countries should be offered financial assistance to buy medicines, efforts should be made to place infected areas under quarantine and risk assessment methods should be improved.
Thus, you will buy them for nothing, for a loaf of bread.
The multinationals of Europe will buy up land in Bulgaria and Romania.
As if we all keep receipts for everything we buy!
Nevertheless, I should like to make a plea, late in the day, for consumers to visit a farm once more – in spite of all the modern achievements – to buy and sample food in its original form, as it were.
There is absolutely no reason why the Commission should not buy into that code of good administrative behaviour, so that we would have a common code for all three institutions.
Along with our group, though, I think it very important that the point again be made that we have to succeed in informing the consumers, the public in the European Union, in a transparent, frank and fair manner, and in good time, for it is they who are meant, in due course, to buy and use this technology, and it is their fears that need to be allayed and their resistance that has to be overcome.
EU countries would buy on the open market or support their former colonies just as they wish, without repercussions on the world market.
To that end, there were many initiatives in the field of civil justice, ensuring that where we give the possibility to move, to do business, to work, to innovate, to trade and to buy, we deliver the balancing legal framework that would give security and access to justice.
Swedes wishing, for example, to buy toys for their children will find that, although a few are produced in their own country, most are imported.
Perhaps that is impossible to implement in practice, but a first step should be to increase knowledge both of the carbon content of everything we buy and of the carbon emitted by our forms of transport.
There may have been a reason 37 years ago for the European Union to regulate the number and size of knots in wood. However, today we ought to leave that maybe to Member States or just to the judgement of those people who buy wood from a timber dealer.
To buy a ticket from Malta to Brussels it costs around 104 Euros if you get a good price, taxes and surcharges on it amount to 126 Euros, that means 121% of the price; between Malta and London 200% of the price, are taxes and other ‘charges’.
That is the sort of contribution that we could make, but if we think, Commissioner Mandelson, that we could buy up their stock under the poverty threshold, we will then be making famine worse.
In view of the vital role that NGOs and certain international organisations play in the supply of health services and treatments, I am glad that they will be allowed to deal with patent holders directly in order to buy and distribute generic medicines.
More effective control and better setting of priorities would make it possible for billions given for development and humanitarian purposes, but then misdirected, to be used to buy adequate supplies of medicines.
It is also about consumers and the confidence they can have in the products they buy.
   . Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over many years, the mild climate, the beautiful countryside, the low prices and the warmth and friendliness of the locals have encouraged thousands of Europeans to buy property in the Spanish region of Valencia.
So, without interfering in Member States’ land law – which is their own affair – can we please look for some sort of advice, guidance and information for our fellow citizens who buy property in another Member State?
In other words, Bin Laden and his ilk will use public telephones, they will buy prepaid cards and, if they want to use the Internet, they will go to an Internet café to do so.
Let us not forget that every time we use a computer, whether it is to buy Christmas gifts or to book flights, data is already being retained by companies on those websites to target marketing and other products towards us.
Women often trade in, and buy, fish.
The customers, or ‘clients’, are predominantly males who feel that they have a right to buy women, or rather, girls.
I know it will take some time before a majority of Member States have criminalised the buying of sex, but is it not time that we criminalise the buying of slaves and criminalise the men who buy the victims of trafficking?
Clients of prostitutes do not buy services, but take advantage of other people’s bodies.
Whereas the ALDE Group line was to vote ‘No’ to this I believe that people that deliberately buy women/girls who are forced into prostitution should be seen as committing a crime similar to the crime of buying stolen goods – that is, fencing.
   There is a link between combating, on the one hand, human trafficking and, on the other hand, the demand for related services from those who buy sex.
Criminalising this type of crime at EU level might, however, lead to penalties not adapted to the national systems’ internal logic and might also lead to a ban on criminalising those who buy sex.
It is also in the interests of the major users, who will buy sugar a great deal cheaper on the world market without this being reflected in the price of the end product, thereby maximising their profits.
Is it acceptable for them to continue subsidising an extensive protectionist system every time they buy a product containing sugar?
Otherwise, one day the only way to own a small business in Europe will be to buy a big one and wait.
At the same time, the EU is trying to buy its way out of anything to do with the Palestinians, for whom, in conjunction with Israel’s policy of apartheid, the EU and the United States are becoming entirely responsible.
Thus, you are putting the entire burden on the family, the problem of children and of health and of education and, at the same time, you are putting these sectors in the hands of crude traders, of dealers who buy and sell, and leading the working classes into an impasse.
We can also agree that we in Europe will in any event commit to those who have launched special projects, including the people behind the farmer’s chicken in the Netherlands and the ‘label rouge’ in France. It should be possible to support them by giving them extra incentives, so that consumers will buy their products.
We must have proper food labelling; it must be clear, so that wherever consumers shop they can make a clear choice about what they wish to buy. They must know where the food came from.
When consumers go to the supermarket to buy chicken, it has to be clearly labelled.
One of the problems is that you can often go into a supermarket now anywhere in the European Union and buy a chicken without being absolutely sure where it has come from and to what standards it has been produced.
The Commissioner said that consumers like to buy high-welfare-standard chickens. Yes, they do, but these need to be clearly labelled.
It then goes straight into processed food, so that when we go to buy our chicken sandwich at a motorway service station, it will probably be made from imported chicken meat and we have no idea what sort of standards it has met.
It is above all the small and medium-sized businesses that need it, or else they will not invest, and consumers will not buy their products.
With regard to world market prices and European gas prices, you should be aware that the US buys its gas at a much higher price than we do in Europe.
What is truly laughable is the fact that we eat subsidised food from the west and we buy western goods that cross our borders freely and without import taxes.
Western intelligence alleges that Iran is using a network of front companies to try and buy components for missile and bomb production from western Europe and to hire impoverished nuclear scientists from the former Soviet Union.
In particular, television advertising shall not directly exhort minors to buy a product or service by exploiting their inexperience or credulity, directly encourage them to persuade their parents or others to purchase the goods or the services being advertised, or exploit the special trust that minors usually have in parents, teachers and in others close to them.
This will enhance the protection of vulnerable groups of consumers, banning directly exhortations to children to buy advertised products or persuade their parents or other adults to buy advertised products for them.
In order to put an end to the violence against women and children, responsibility for sex slavery and prostitution should be laid at the door not of the victims but of those who assume the right to buy and sell women’s bodies.
Not a single factory has been given market economy status, in spite of its being acknowledged that factories buy leather and labour in a way that is adjusted to conditions in the market.
The idea is to get rid of civil servants who make mistakes, and we therefore tell them that, each time they have to buy a pencil, they must follow a long procedure in order to assure us that the pencil has been purchased properly.
Many consumers wish to buy well-caught fish, but they do not know which of the fish is sustainable.
There is something else we must say to European businesses, however: It is that it is possible to grow by using high business profits to create new products, to develop new technologies and new capacities, rather than only to buy up other businesses.
I did not see anyone becoming agitated about France seeking to buy up an Italian bank, or Electricité de France acquiring a stake in Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, or UniCredito in Italy acquiring Hypo-Vereinsbank, even though ABN AMRO encountered problems when it tried to take a similar course of action in Italy.
For example, producers of Parma ham or Tiroler Speck may think to themselves: if we were to buy the pigs on the wider market, it would be cheaper than having to produce them in the region or stipulating that the regions from which we obtain them be specifically geared towards such production – because this would naturally mean an increase in production costs.
This being the case, it would be a highly dubious business to believe it is possible to buy raw materials at cheaper prices, and that is why we have stipulated and are stipulating that there be a special relationship between the regions in this regard.
We have to pay more for so-called ‘organic’ products in order to buy what should be normal food.
Women buy handbags with French labels which are made in Morocco.
They do not permit competition in their own countries, but they buy up energy companies in other countries using this idle money.
I should also say that it is not right to try and buy success by throwing endless supplies of taxpayers’ money at European parties.
Regrettably, Russia, under Mr Putin, supplies gas to Belarus at USD 50 per thousand cubic metres and the Belarus economy is rosy enough for Mr Lukashenko to be able to buy the votes of pensioners, the military, the police and all the apparatus of the state.
In Italy, it would be helpful if securing a loan to buy one’s own house were made easier, as it is currently very difficult to do so.
It will do this by harmonising consumer protection throughout the single market, enabling citizens to move freely within the EU and buy goods with the same confidence as in their countries of origin.
Poland wants to diversify its supply base so as not to be dependent on Russia. Spain too wishes to follow the principle of diversification and to buy more from Russia so as not to be dependent on its existing suppliers.
   According to a saying – also used in my country – ‘money can buy everything except good health'.
If we are going to allocate those large sums of money, they should be used for the production of educational literature that can be disseminated to the public. That material should let the public know that there is actually no risk from properly cooked poultry and that it is perfectly safe to buy it in supermarkets and to eat it in restaurants.
People are much more aware nowadays of the need for a healthy, balanced diet and they are much more careful about the food they buy.
We are concerned here with two proposals that genuinely speak to Europeans and, with a view to helping them choose what to buy, provide them with concrete answers regarding the trust to be placed in these claims.
Therefore, consumers can actually choose whether they want to buy those products. Farmers can now avoid, for example, soybeans that have been produced by GM methods and buy the conventional type of feed for their animals.
The available biomass, wind and water power will not of course be enough, we will still need to buy energy from Russia and the OPEC States.
It is very fair to look at these issues, because we cannot afford, if we want to promote sustainability, to buy energy from a third country where environmental standards are neglected and, as a result, the price of energy resources is perhaps cheaper.
   Commissioner, very briefly, I know you want to err on the side of caution and you refer to remedies, but you must realise, of course, that you are the most important guarantor of prices remaining affordable for Belgian consumers and for Belgian enterprises who buy gas and electricity.
At the moment, on the coast itself, it is difficult to buy fresh fish, something that used to attract tourists and holidaymakers.
They produce unsubsidised wines that people want to buy, at a price they can afford.
It is in this way that this decision benefits consumers, who can buy high-quality wine at lower prices, and so my view of this is diametrically opposed to that of the motion’s authors.
   Mr President, I always have the privilege, when I make my way to Strasbourg, of driving through the wonderful regions of the Palatinate and Alsace, where I buy my wine.
I fear that the dual approach adopted – and that is not the responsibility of the Austrian Presidency; the problem is a more collective one for the European Union – is nothing but an ordinary attempt to buy time or, to use a topical football analogy, the 25 are playing for time by throwing the ball at the stand until there are better conditions.
If a German or an Irishman buys a policy from a British company, it is the British regulator who is responsible for the financial probity of that company. The German or Irish regulators appear to play no role, but that does not help the EU citizen, for whom it is impractical, inconvenient and costly to pursue concerns with the British regulator, even supposing he were interested.
Any arrangement by which aviation was ultimately incorporated into a wider ETS would also need a cap on the number of emission rights the aviation sector could buy from the market to ensure that aviation itself begins to make some of these cuts.
Finally, if colleagues are in any doubt about the importance of a separate scheme, they should consider the words of a chief economist of British Airways, who admitted last week that if airlines joined the existing emissions trading system their emissions would simply continue to grow at an alarming rate: they would simply buy up the right to emit as ever, their own emissions would not go down, and we would still see aviation having a massive accountability for the climate crisis.
Why is that the case? There is no market without suppliers and, in the early days, air transport will buy only on the basis of its growth rates and of technical innovations for the long term.
I wonder what EU citizens would say if they knew that a majority of their governments were fighting against the consumers’ right to know the capacity of the batteries they buy.
The Council wants us to buy a pig in a poke.
Surely, in a sane world, i.e. one without the EU, when someone buys a product, he becomes responsible for its safe disposal.
We must do our bit to ensure that it remains possible to manufacture and sell European cars – not for the sake of the cars, not even for the sake of those who buy and drive them but for the sake of the people who need those jobs.
Hedge funds buy up companies as assets nowadays.
We live in an economic world in which major funds buy large companies, de-list them as quickly as possible in order to reorganise them as quickly as possible and sell them on at a profit as quickly as possible.
We buy 25% of its gas, 27% of its oil and some of its uranium.
One could argue that whilst Fair Trade helps salve the conscience of those who buy such products, others continue, nonetheless, to exploit the needy.
The subject of the report should have been the labelling of products so that the guiding principles of Fair Trade would not be distorted at the cost of consumers who want to buy Fair Trade products.
The simple decision to buy products with a Fair Trade mark can have a huge impact, guaranteeing that growers and workers benefit from fairer wages and better working conditions, and can make a crucial different to their ability to provide for the basic needs of their families.
A staggering 87% of the UK population would rather buy from companies that do something positive for the community.
Until someone has explained to me how it can be called Fair Trade when I buy state-produced juice and my money goes to a communist dictatorship I demand that all Oxfam products be removed from the range of goods on offer in Parliament, because that is not Fair Trade.
In short, the proposed origin marking system will inform European consumers of the precise country of origin of the products they buy. It moves in the direction of things we have approved previously, such as the traceability of agricultural products.
Let me just stress that it is not a ‘buy Europe’ campaign.
Products will not be stamped ‘This is foreign – do not buy it’!
Indeed, the more people know about the origin of goods and come to associate that origin with particular features or the quality of those goods, it may encourage them to buy those goods from those sources and places of origin.
The point is not whether we want to encourage people to buy goods from particular places of origin or discourage them from doing so, but to give them the information to enable them to make an objective judgement about where they purchase goods.
In Finland, on the other hand, car tax actually punishes those who buy vehicles that produce fewer emissions.
The aim should be to reduce harmful emissions rather than provide the car industry, even after the market has been saturated, with customers who are keen to buy the latest model every year.
   Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many Finns have been amazed that Finland can maintain a road tax that has made it almost impossible for people to buy cars abroad and has forced them to pay much higher prices than others.
It will mean that it will become easier to buy and sell cars across Member States’ borders. Those who will benefit from this are basically individual consumers.
As a result, the desired outcome – namely to effect a major shift in what the consumer decides when he buys a car – would not be achieved, since, if there is only a difference of EUR 80 between a car with 120 g/km emission and a car with 200 g/km emissions, then the market will remain unaffected.
It is still very difficult for a European citizen in one country to buy a car from another country and go back home with it.
We must see to it that the weaker members of society who cannot afford to buy those types of car whose purchase we are encouraging, are not penalised through higher payments.
   – When you buy a new car in, for example, Portugal, you have to pay an astronomical registration tax to the government, sometimes nearly half the final cost of the car.
In my country, for example, because new cars, which are more environmentally-friendly, are more expensive, people buy less safe, more polluting used cars from other countries.
We need industry to buy into what we are saying.
Thanks to affordable purchases and a wage situation different to our own, our consumers can buy affordable products, and meanwhile in China they have financial reserves totalling hundreds of billions enabling them to buy products from us as well.
Those who buy eco-labelled fish also want to know that the stock is not threatened.
Tomorrow, we are to release EUR 80 million to buy these buildings, which we actually paid for years ago.
I would suggest that you buy a copy of the Franco-German history books that have been on the market for the past three months, and which are wonderful in the way they show what European identity means.
To buy the current buildings is a good business deal in the long term, from a strictly financial point of view.
   We can only be delighted at the signing of the framework agreement that will allow Parliament to buy the WIC, SDM and IPE3 buildings outright for the sum of EUR 143 125 million.
We know only too well that oil stirs up conflicts, excites envy, enables people to buy weapons and also leads to standstills, particularly on the part of China - which has very important interests in that area – and of all those, and the superpowers in particular, that are now searching ever more feverishly for oil resources to which they can have easy access.
We need to be sure that consumers are confident that the products that they buy as being organic really are so, whether they are imported or produced within the European Union and that there is no unfair competition for European organic producers.
Consumers are therefore choosing to buy food that is more expensive but safer.
If we are going to ask consumers to choose organic, we are going to have to ensure that what they buy is actually organic.
It is important, therefore, that people are absolutely certain when they buy a product imported from outside the European Union that those high standards of organic production have been met.
That way, consumers can buy them with great confidence and we in the farming community can produce them with great confidence.
Mr Parish has made the point that consumers place great faith in the word ‘organic’ and in organic produce, and we need to ensure that those who want to buy organic are actually getting what they believe is a very pure product.
Some of them I would not have thought would be in the organic league I have to say, but they are on the list and I think that because they are on the list we need to reassure consumers, certainly in Ireland and across the EU, that if they buy organic produce from those countries, they meet the same standards of organic produce from within the European Union.
If you are a relatively low-paid parent of a young child, who has to buy new footwear regularly, this imposition is a serious one and I regret that we have taken this action.
I should like to know which Head of State or which Commissioner will be going out in person to explain to families with many children that when they buy more expensive shoes they are not buying higher quality, but are subsidising inefficient footwear companies.
What do you say to Swedish families with small children who may be forced to buy several pairs of children's shoes per year?
Surely they do not want to buy products that are made by children?
I am convinced that the majority of well-informed, enlightened consumers would never buy a product that had suffered agonising torment before ending up on the shelves.
Let us put our trust in the ever growing community of consumers who make conscious decisions when choosing what to buy and opt for products that guarantee animals are treated with respect.
I should also like you to reflect on ways to boost transparency in pricing, so that consumers can see if the Fair Trade premium is passed back by supermarkets, as well as seeing that if they buy their ten-pound or fifteen-euro dress, their bargain may be at the expense of a decent living for textile workers.
As a boy, a German-owned shop was not somewhere that I could buy things.
We cannot have a situation where Russia wants to invest in our gas and oil infrastructure and even wants to buy a minority stake in Airbus, but where at the same time our companies like Shell and Mobil are kicked out of the energy fields in Russia.
Those who negotiate for us, those who buy energy out in the real world, need to invest, and businesses only invest when there is a reasonable degree of certainty.
In other words, people who can only afford meat once a fortnight, who cannot buy clothes for their children, who cannot change their car until they have had it for 15 years.
Anyone who wants to can buy an electronic replica that looks exactly like an old-fashioned barometer.
Alternatively, they can buy a second-hand one, as the directive is about the release onto the market of new barometers.
It should make it easier for people moving to another EU country for work or retirement or wanting to buy a second property abroad.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - (ES) Mr President, I believe that the Commission has taken the right approach in relation to mortgages, because, as the Commissioner has said, it is probably the most significant commitment European citizens make in their entire lives: the loan to buy their own homes.
When I went to Lithuania after the Russian ban on Georgian wine, I saw young Lithuanian volunteers, including students from the Universities of Vilnius and Kaunas, going around supermarkets, together with their professors, telling shoppers to buy Georgian wine. They said that this was freedom wine, that Georgians were paying the price for freedom and needed immediate help, and that shoppers they should therefore buy that wine out of solidarity.
For me, the market means meeting customers' needs and providing a range of services and products that the public actually buy.
Russia is now wealthy enough to buy up energy infrastructure throughout Europe.
There are those for whom making the EU a military union is a goal, and paragraphs 51 and 52 of this report read like their wish list, with new weaponry and more money to buy it and enable the EU to be a military global player around the world.
Do we want to end this, or do we just want to go on talking? This organised crime industry feeds on the demands of ordinary men who believe they have a right to buy the body of a young girl as cheaply as possible.
The demand from men to buy sex is also a driving force in the trafficking business.
Those who purchase sexual services buy women and children indiscriminately in an equally indiscriminate EU market.
Therefore, talk about a Constitutional consensus is futile while we have no consensus of solidarity in our minds and hearts, and while Russia can buy not only a gas pipeline, but also European politicians.
Indeed for this very reason, it offers consumers no protection from the dangers concealed in products from third countries, especially given that the unemployed will buy cheap products, legally or otherwise.
The big question is whether we will resolve this if we indicate exact percentages and quantities on the label, and so this method is probably ineffective, as the content changes by the day, and I know few farmers who study every label before they decide which cattle feed to buy.
In order to maintain this balance, it is therefore crucial for farmers to be aware of the composition of the mixture that they buy.
At the same time, we must bear in mind that, to put it bluntly, television channels, whether they be publicly or privately owned, need advertising revenue in order to buy high-quality content such as sport, films and documentaries.
I see this as self-deception; on the one hand product placement is to be allowed, but, on the other, according to the directive, people are not meant to buy the products.
Its goal is to find a way to modernise and improve existing legislation with the purpose of increasing consumer and enterprise confidence so that they can buy and sell within the borders of the internal market.
In a market economy - and when it comes to environmental decisions I keep wanting to remind people about this - the decision to buy is, in the end, made by the consumer.
We could use lower taxes to encourage people to buy more advanced technology, giving more money to research and development and pilot projects.
However, I really cannot follow what Mr Krahmer means if he is saying, basically, that if someone has enough money to buy a particularly large and expensive car they also acquire the right, at the same time, to cause more pollution.
This system, ladies and gentlemen, helps parents to choose - assuming that it is the parents who decide what videogames their children buy - but it does not concern and it contains no reference to the content of the videogame.
When I say control over the sale of violent videogames, I mean effective control, because today there are no mandatory instruments that make it possible to check whether or not a person under the age of 16 can buy videogames that incite or glorify acts of violence or even actual criminal acts.
It will not therefore be possible to use the fund to buy firearms.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, long before the European Union entered into existence, we enjoyed good cooperation on the railways, with cross-border, long-distance train services, with people being able to buy direct tickets to far-flung destinations in their own countries and an international time table being available in every country.
In future, people with restricted mobility will be able to buy tickets on the train without paying a supplement, and, if a person cannot access the services provided in the train due to their restricted mobility, they will be able to be accompanied by another person who will travel for free.
Is it not the case, though, that the situation will end up as it has in Italy, where the 2007 budget law favours those who are in a position to buy new vehicles and actually condemns precisely those who are least well-off, who cannot afford to change their vehicles, to a lack of mobility and heavy costs?
However, the possibility remains open - unsurprisingly - of emissions trading, which especially affects the more economically fragile countries that do not have the money to buy emissions rights.
Yes, of course, the single market is a powerful instrument; 90% of what we manufacture we - our companies and the members of the public - buy back within the European Union, and that is a good thing, for it makes us a strong international player, but - as Mr Hughes has pointed out - we have now reached the point at which we have to get people back to work, and not by exerting pressure, nor by excluding anyone, but by means of better education and training, and by providing new opportunities.
The old categories are disappearing and we need to respond with a regulation that permits the spectrum users to choose the mix of services and technologies that they prefer and that in many cases permits them to buy and sell spectrum rights to each other.
This will affect in particular countries with weaker economies that do not have the money to buy these emissions rights.
90% of what we manufacture in the European Union, we - as consumers - buy back from our own companies, and that gives us strength to cope with the vicissitudes of globalisation.
The strategy of Khartoum to negotiate individually with each rebel leader to buy their support will not create a cohesive and lasting peace.
Everyone agrees, but this is plainly hypocritical when we know that some Member States, which are today opposing nuclear energy, buy energy from this source when the survival of their economies depends on it.
When shopping, European consumers need to be enabled to see, simply and quickly, how long the meat they are interested in was transported prior to slaughter, in order then to be able to take their own decision as to whether or not to buy it.
Moreover, I believe that we should not buy and trade home-grown talent, but rather, as is usual in the United States, allocate talented players to clubs by lot.
It has been calculated that over the last 10 years the volume of counterfeit goods has risen by 1 600%, and I believe that Europe needs to do something, because we are talking about a vast market and very real, material things, such as toys, clothes, shoes, food, cosmetics, chemicals, gastronomic products with false designations of origin, spectacles, compact discs, DVDs and other things, in other words all goods that European consumers buy every day.
By the same token, the consumer must gain considerably more awareness, and this is why I have tabled an amendment to introduce the concept of the intentional handling of counterfeit products, which means that if a consumer deliberately buys products that are too cheap, they should know that they are buying counterfeit products and by doing so, prevent our society from working properly, and also hamper our economy.
Now that it has allowed Slovenes to buy property there, Croatia has discharged its obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and so this point of contention ought to have been laid to rest.
To fund and buy out the opposition.
Moreover, the criticism levelled by most of the outside world that wants to buy energy will quickly subside.
We must avoid a scenario where medical services are simply considered services of general interest, which means that they would be placed outside the scope of the European Treaty, with the effect that each Member State would again set up its own system, that borders would be closed, that there would be no freedom, that patients would not be recognised as having rights and that the rich would jet out to Peking to get the best treatment money can buy instead of seeking treatment in Europe.
We can buy up the whole of their trade and industry.
They are scarcely able to buy food for the day.
Consumers choose to buy organic products because they are produced more sustainably and without pesticides and are completely GMO-free.
For this reason, I believe that we should continue to work with Russia. We should continue to buy energy resources because, for Russia, the EU is the best possible market because it is the closest market and mutual ties have existed for some time, but for security of supply it is important to diversify.
That is why it is so important that for instance the access for control for adult content should be available and that there be awareness-raising campaigns for parents and grandparents - who often buy mobile phones for their grandchildren - and for the children themselves.
Let us not conceal the reason - some people may think that what matters is to have a government that is more or less legitimised, but in a country from which we can continue to buy oil.
This is how consumers receive sound information about the product. They know what they buy, and can rely on the fact that what they are getting is quality.
A consumer needs to know what whisky is, and what it is made from. A consumer has the right to buy a product made according to the original and traditional recipes and from traditional ingredients.
If the compromise disintegrates, there will be no special status accorded to vodka made from potatoes or grain, and consumers will still be unclear as to what they are getting when they buy vodka.
False descriptions extensively deceive consumers. Unsuspecting consumers can buy toys for their children in good faith and without having the slightest idea that a cat may have been skinned alive in order to be used for that very toy.
Humane Society International estimates that, every year, about two million cats and dogs are killed in China alone to supply the fashion market in Europe with items like this little toy, which the rapporteur mentioned - little cats, which mums and dads buy for their kids because they are cat and dog lovers, not realising that they have been made out of real cat and dog skin from animals that have been brutally killed.
The trade buys these cat skins to make collars for trim for parka hoods and ski boot and ski glove linings and all sorts of fashion items.
If they knew they would not buy them.
Even though this ban may be at the expense of a number of Dutch expressions, such as de hond in de pot vinden [find your dinner in the dog] or de kat in de zak kopen [buy a cat in a sack], this does mean that we are keen to protect the animals that are dear to us, and it is unacceptable for our children to be faced with parts of their pets incorporated in their toys.
Most cats and dogs growing up in Europe can count on being stroked, fed, exercised and well cared for. However, those people who buy cuddly toys or fashionable handbags made of cat or dog fur contribute to a trade that causes animals to be tortured, beaten and flayed alive.
The vast majority of European consumers condemn the barbaric slaughter of our favourite domestic animals and do not wish to buy these products. This is why importers often give cat fur products various invented names to mislead the well-meaning customer.
Or, in some cases, there is a completely different sort of financial offset in terms of an agreement to buy products from a company in another market.
Offsets are economic compensations, which most Member States require from non-national suppliers when they buy military equipment abroad.
Just 6% of consumers buy online from suppliers in other Member States.
We buy and sell goods and services on it, and we chat and meet each other there.
Anyone nostalgic for an old barometer will be able to buy one.
In addition to specially made goods, they buy normal foods that do not normally contain gluten.
It costs us less to buy raw materials, petrol and gas.
Once there they buy two big cases of vodka and drink themselves into a stupor on their way back.
Were you aware, Commissioner that at present European dairy-farmers are having to go to countries like Canada or the United States to buy dairy cows because they cannot find cattle to buy in the Community market?
It was very interesting to see that a German newspaper made a very quick study, concluding that in order to buy one litre of milk a person had to work for 11 minutes in 1960 and only 3 minutes in 2006.
The problem seems to be with passengers in transit who buy in the 'transit' airport and then attempt to check through security for their further flight.
While I support the notion of facilitating access to the housing market for people who would not normally be able to buy a home, with hindsight the adequacy of regulation and consumer protection will inevitably be debated.
I would like to emphasise the need to step up the controls over the assistance provided by the European Union, for example as a part of humanitarian aid, in order to avoid the possibility of funds provided by the European Union for education or medical care for children being used to buy small light arms that can be used by children.
You buy something on the internet, and Amazon.com sends you the wrong books.
The Distance Selling Directive does not sound very nice either but it basically means that if you buy something on the internet, say from Germany, and, when you get it and it does not look like what you wanted, you can send the product back within seven days, and the purchase is refunded.
People believe that when they buy products in the European market, they are safe.
I am also glad that many European citizens are listening to this very important matter for our everyday lives - the so-called 'Green Paper', which perhaps sounds a little distant. But when you realise that we are surrounded by consumer contracts, starting early in the morning when we buy a cup of coffee - this is already a consumer contract - you can see how important what we are debating today is to the citizens' agenda of the European Union.
With that sort of service on stations it is quite incomprehensible why one cannot also buy a ticket on the train, as in other countries.
In reply to passengers who complain that they waste time unnecessarily because they have to buy another ticket once they have crossed the border, the Commission says that it came up with a good proposal but that the European Parliament blocked it.
I think that the toy industry must really look seriously at a proper toy safety mark that it develops and manages itself so that consumers really have that assurance that, when they come to buy toys this Christmas, they will have safe, good quality toys.
You will then get entire lists of suppliers, the Chinese supply industry and producers and see all that you can buy there.
I want to ensure the safety of my constituents - the children, the grandchildren of the people that have elected me - when they go to buy their Christmas toys to ensure and guarantee that they are not going to die from some lead paint.
To be honest, I do not always think about what chemicals a toy contains or what standard of safety it conforms to when I buy toys for my children.
For me, it goes without saying that the toys I buy in Sweden, Brussels or Strasbourg are safe.
Who would buy a toy knowing that it contained carcinogens?
(SV) Mr President, we buy toys for our children so that they can have fun and be stimulated in their development.
Anyone who buys their children the cheapest junk toys untested does not want this responsibility!
If it wants to buy Russian gas, it has to deal with the Russian state.'
It is not reasonable for consumers to get less protection when they purchase a service across a border than when they buy goods from another Member State.
It touches every citizen in one way or another: the goods and services we buy, the television we watch, the energy we use and the work we do.
In my own country, Britain, you cannot buy organic potatoes because you could not spray them and could not keep the blight away from them.
(DA) Madam President, early tomorrow morning I am going to the grocer's to buy bottled drinking water.
These improvements may increase the price of new cars but, then, reduced emissions mean improved fuel economy, so those who buy the cars will save money as they drive them.
Finally, on labelling and advertising. We need a clear system, a green car labelling system, that every consumer can understand, just as they understand, when they buy white goods, how those white goods work.
Each Member State has its own Information Office, which is a good thing, but why buy the most expensive buildings in the most expensive areas?
Why could we not buy slightly cheaper buildings a bit further out of town and spend the relevant funds on human resources?
That is the best way to influence people, to go to them, and not buy costly buildings.
That requires a great deal of persuasion of our trading partners, the emerging economies, who we need to persuade to buy into and sign up to the post-2012 agreement that we all agree is greatly needed and which needs to have the maximum geographical coverage.
Market surveys carried out show how European consumers are radically changing their eating habits, being forced to change the quality and type of products that they buy as a result of the exorbitant prices.
Of course we have to be watchful on behalf of those who cannot afford to buy food at normal prices.
It has manipulated the media, politicians and even scientists in order to buy more time, and this it has done purely and simply for financial gain, knowing full well that thousands of lives were at stake.
People can buy in cheaper from their neighbours but if there is no mains connection that is not possible.
According to one point of view, the international community suffers from a lack of availability of opiates, or might suffer from such a shortage in the near future, and it is therefore necessary, under certain conditions, to buy this drug from Afghanistan.
The problem is simple, therefore. What we are asking you to check is whether it is more difficult and more costly to go in and forcibly uproot crops from one area which will then very probably be moved to the adjoining area, or else to buy up that harvest and process it on the spot, under supervision by the international community, so that it cannot be used to produce heroin but is used there and then to produce medicines.
This situation is having an impact on the competitiveness of EU livestock farmers and leads to the paradoxical situation where EU consumers buy meat and livestock products from third countries that use GM feed.
The goals that the airlines set themselves for improving efficiency must be achieved, and the aviation industry must not be able to simply buy its way out.
The GUE/NGL Group believes that the proportion of allowances to be allocated should be 20% of the average for the years 2004 to 2006; this would limit the amount of allowances that the aviation sector could buy from other sectors or under the ETS scheme; and the auction rate could rise to 100%.
This is a huge problem for us in Ireland, because, if airlines were to convert free of charge, we would have to replace these Kyoto allowances by those that the Irish state would have to buy on the market at full market price.
In addition, anyone who does not buy a digital receiver from these companies should still have the right to receive the signal from these stations.
Firstly, we disagree with emission trading which always protects those who have more money to buy emission rights and does not solve the problem of excess CO2 emissions.
Likewise, if we turned to the public galleries and asked whether anyone was prepared to give up the opportunity to buy competitively priced goods - be they electrical appliances, textiles or other products - there would be no volunteers.
It more or less directly stresses the essential aspects, for example, which are that Russia has allowed EU companies to buy strategic stakes in Russian companies, the importance of improving the climate for investment in Russia (to the joy of major EU financial groups), and 'equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment' on the basis of the principles of the 'Energy Charter Treaty'.
Either the political elite do not care what people want, as in the case of Mr Sarkozy and Mr Brown, or they feel that the people are too stupid to make any decision more important than what burger to buy at McDonalds.
This vision is a burden to the UK because many of the EU population buy only one-way tickets.
Because it is not defined as a firearm, you do not need a permit: anybody off the street can buy it - a criminal can buy it.
A third and final area would be to empower consumers to make informed choices on what products they buy, through the provision of clear information on the carbon footprint of each product.
Kostis Hatzidakis - our colleague until a few months ago, an MEP and now the Greek Minister for Transport and Communications - approved my proposal, and Greece printed and released a set of AIDS remembrance stamps; proceeds from sales of the stamps will be used to buy drugs for those suffering from the virus.
Pretty well all of us think that we can buy CE-labelled toys in the EU with peace of mind.
But in reality we involuntarily buy toys which contain carcinogens and lead.
Only then will consumers, who are central here, have faith in what they buy.
Does it really make sense for the EU to use European taxpayers' money for advertising campaigns seeking to persuade the same taxpayers that they should buy goods they have already financed through subsidies.
The eminent Swedish columnist, Johan Hakelius, wrote as follows in a leading Swedish newspaper: 'When EU citizens buy the same kind of flowers all across Europe, of course cohesion and European harmony increase.
I do not understand why Moravian winegrowers should buy expensive must from Southern countries, only to replace a 200-year-old tradition of sugaring, thereby changing the traditional bouquet and taste of their quality wines.
We know that, on the one hand, protected markets lead to large undertakings having a monopoly on the trade in spare parts since, in protected markets, the consumer has to buy a replacement for a defective or damaged part from the original producer.
An example: the amount of sugar to be contained in different kinds of wine should in fact be left to the consumers who buy the products themselves to decide. It should not be determined in decision-making processes between the EU institutions.
Recently there was a proposal to prohibit smoking in public places, when at the same time, in the centre of the capital city, you can buy thousands of packets of contraband cigarettes.
I should also like to say something about the Socialists' amendment because the reality of the market in these products differs between countries that produce them, countries that buy them and countries that both produce and buy them.
I ask the rapporteur: how is a farmer who is only getting two quid a head for his sheep supposed to fit microchips and buy expensive scanners and readers that can comply with a mandatory electronic ID system?
The French President, Nicolas Sarkozy, introduced a noteworthy argument into the debate when he wrote to the Commission President that the ability to spend a lot of money on a car - in other words to buy a big and expensive vehicle - did not entitle you to produce more pollution.
We want a thriving and innovative market; we want companies actively offering a wide range of products and services tailored to the need of consumers to buy specific articles, products or services.
In this respect I do not believe we have done any great favours to the European consumers and citizens who have had to watch this backstage wrangling among the Member States, but if this final outcome provides greater transparency for consumers who wish to buy a car, for example, enabling them to make an informed choice between a hire-purchase agreement and a personal loan, I believe it will be useful.
The fact is that a consumer who wants to buy a digital camera for EUR 220 and then has to complete a ten-page credit form in writing will scarcely be able to comprehend all the risks involved in a credit transaction for EUR 220.
The result, in my view, is that much of what is meant well in this package will not ultimately help the average vulnerable consumer but will create such difficulties for consumers that they will even prefer not to buy anything on credit terms to avoid the daunting task of completing the extensive set of forms.
Sex tourism is another area to be addressed, including cooperation among public authorities and private individuals, tourist agencies and credit card companies, to help us to identify people who buy child pornography material on the Internet. Clearly the paedophiles do not pay cash, they pay by credit card.
A friend of mine, who has ten children and no grandmother to help bring them up, asked me: "Do you know where I could buy a granny for my children?”
Are Europeans now to be required, on pain of sanctions or higher taxes, to buy 'clean' vehicles fitted with expensive safety-related technologies, while the reality in a country like France is that the high average age of cars on the road (eight years) is a reflection of people's financial difficulties and low purchasing power?
Although Europeans already have the ability to take out bank loans abroad to buy consumer goods, few use it: less than 1% of the total amount of this type of credit is currently borrowed abroad.
Although European households already have the ability to take out bank loans abroad to buy consumer goods, few use it.
Consumers will have the information they need to choose in full knowledge of the facts, if they decide to buy across borders.
This market is worth 800 billion euros (two out of three Europeans use credit to buy furniture, a television or a car), and interest rates currently vary from 6% (in Finland) to more than 12% (in Portugal), and yet transactions have so far been mainly national; less than 1% of credits are currently cross-border.
Distinguished MEPs, do show some concern for the fact that the Bulgarian Socialist Party buys gypsy votes on a regular basis during elections in Bulgaria.
Do care that the coalition partner of Bulgarian Socialists, the Movement for Rights and Liberties, represented here in the ALDE group, buys all the remaining votes. Also cast by gypsies.
They went to shop, to buy medicines and milk for the babies, which is not available in Gaza.
Mr President, Gaza remains a human tragedy, and none of us in this House can blame its long-suffering Palestinian citizens from rushing through the Rafah border-crossing breech in the wall to buy goods in Egypt.
At the present time, when the Polish energy production industry buys barely 10% of its emission allowances at auction, the price of electric power has risen by some 15% in 2007, and is set to rise in the next few years by a further 20% to 30 %.
Under paragraph 22, it calls for getting rid of fixed-cost systems by which people buy their energy, be it electricity or gas. I have signed up to a fixed-cost system in the United Kingdom.
I welcome moves by some retailers to stop selling such heaters in response to consumer pressure, and I would not buy one myself.
The result will not be any worse, just cheaper: it is up to us to decide whether to go ahead and buy the more expensive item anyway.
Products under those brand names are actually designed in England but made in China, and anybody who doubts that China can produce good-quality products should visit their local model train shop at the weekend and, maybe, like me, buy a present for their grandson.
I am also most grateful to Mrs McCarthy and Mrs Fourtou for informing us that the CE mark and its significance did not just begin to exercise this Parliament when the framework legislation on the new approach was adopted but that, whenever a directive relating to the CE mark has been discussed in recent years, we have repeatedly asked whether the CE mark - which, as we know, was originally intended purely as a marking for market-surveillance bodies - really tells consumers what they want to know when they buy a product.
The aim of the various proposed measures is to encourage people to buy products and, when they buy, to purchase European ones.
Now I buy a new microwave every year - the cheapest I can find - and it is then thrown away.
(FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, European consumers expect the products they buy to enjoy better safety protection.
By the way, it concerns not only parents but also grandparents -very often grandparents are the first to buy a mobile phone for their grandchildren, in order to communicate with them. And it concerns educators, of course.
It is not about supposed high treason, and it is not about the EU 'theatre'. It is about making sure that this 30% will continue to buy the paper each day.
Pamper yourself; have it all; buy.
You do a search, you buy something.
Increasing the quota would impede producers in these Member States from using the opportunities available to them; indeed, for these countries a quota increase could actually result in a drop in production because producers in Member States that are using their quota will buy up the livestock they need to increase milk production from these countries.
In the Netherlands this is used to buy nature areas.
(ES) Commissioner, I assume that you know that in some States there is a method for paying authors' rights that involves establishing a charge that must be paid by all those who buy equipment to record or reproduce material, or buy CDs or DVDs.
I wanted to ask you whether you think that this method is acceptable, when there are many people who buy such equipment or DVDs and do not use them either to download music or to reproduce anything that affects authors' rights.
A few years ago when I went to buy an apartment in Brussels, the Brussels bank manager would not sign off my mortgage unless I got my husband to sign it.
It is about a dynamic business environment where entrepreneurs are spending their time and resources on producing high-quality goods and services that people from all over the world want to buy, not on filling in unnecessary forms and having to battle every day against red tape.
I have some statistics here, stating that in 1970 a German industrial worker had to work for 22 minutes to buy 250 grams of butter; today he only needs to work four minutes.
Are you aware of the fact that these EUR 50 are meant to make you survive and buy food at prices commensurate to the European ones?
It is all the more scandalous because drivers in a country like France have been encouraged to buy diesel-powered vehicles - presumably so that we can now clobber them harder than ever!
Someone who has shoplifted food is not forbidden to buy milk and someone who has stolen a bicycle is not forbidden to use the street.
It would be a good thing if funds could be found for the development of a network of modern libraries in Poland, with thought for people who cannot afford to buy books.
There are very rich people who can buy anything, including organs for transplantation.
This is a purchasing power crisis, which hits the most destitute who can no longer afford to buy food.
What has now happened is that the purchasing power of the middle classes in third world countries has decreased so that these people are finding it difficult to buy other consumer goods.
This was the trade-off between pressure from the automobile industry to move the Commission to be less ambitious on car efficiency and to buy or to compensate this less ambitious policy with the higher target on agrofuels.
(NL) Mr President, today the headline of the French newspaper Le Monde read: 'You cannot buy much more for 1 euro'.
Obviously, it is unable to purchase equipment that is very costly, but in its evaluation report the Commission recommended that Frontex should buy or lease equipment that is frequently used: night vision goggles, small radar equipment, thermal imaging equipment, etc.
I would like to take the opportunity to put the following question, maybe especially to the Council: Are you prepared to draw up not only environmental criteria for biofuels but also social standards for biofuels, for example, guaranteeing acceptable pay, union rights, etc. for the biofuel we buy in to the Union?
During his visit Mr Saakashvili shared with us just one thought: he encouraged us to buy Georgian wines, which he called 'wines of freedom'.
Millions of people are discriminated against - the elderly as well as other groups - everyday in the European Union as they try to access health, education and transport services or try to buy insurance or apply for a loan.
For example, French people cannot buy from some German sites.
Men must not only refrain from buying sexual services themselves. They must also show other men that it is not OK to buy women's bodies.
For the purposes of clarity, let me explain: the small corner shop where you can buy your food here in Brussels at 10 o'clock at night must comply with precisely the same regulations as the giant supermarket chains.
Even though we all might like to benefit from cheaper credit or more profitable investments, it is unlikely that tomorrow an Italian will go to a Danish or Cypriot bank to get a loan to buy his house or his car.
We ourselves say that we buy some 80% of these products.
As socialists we insisted on the creation of a strong and independent authority, since we know that in a liberalised European market everyone wants to buy where it is cheapest, and to sell where it is most expensive.
In its evaluation report, the Commission recommended that Frontex should be able to buy or lease its own equipment, at least for certain small items of equipment.
It is the less well-off in our society who do not have the money to buy refrigerators that are more energy efficient.
Given our growing interdependence on imports, particularly gas, the volume of Russian gas that we would like to buy is likely to grow, so we need a clear policy of diversification.
If production is not profitable, we can of course buy in supplies from New Zealand, Australia and other countries.
I wonder, for instance, by what criterion cars capable of unthinkable speeds are still being marketed and, to take up Mr Kusstatscher, if there is no intelligence on the part of consumer motorists who buy cars of this kind and drive them in our towns and cities, then the responsibility lies with those who administer and are responsible for deciding on the freedom of persons who can never be allowed to limit the freedom of others who are unfortunately often physically eliminated in such cases.
Now, I do not know whether it is possible to buy a car without a radio, CD player or those sorts of things.
People are naturally curious and like to buy novelties, especially when they are financially accessible.
I am convinced that, even if this type of car is a bit more expensive, that everyone who buys it will feel they are investing in their own safety.
We need the citizens of Europe, who will buy these intelligent systems once they have clearly seen the benefits they can bring.
The current progress in information and communication technologies enables us to manufacture and buy vehicles that are smarter, safer and cleaner.
In other words, if you want to buy 10 million euros' worth of futures in oil, all you have to do is put down half a million euros as an investment.
As one such consumer, I would like to be sure that the food I buy is safe.
Like other industries in the scheme, they will be able to sell any allowances they do not need on the market, but if their emissions are higher they will need to buy more allowances or emission credits from clean energy projects in third countries.
Uncontrolled hedge funds and private-equity firms that buy some company or other, cherry-pick its assets and dump its employees on the streets - simply to maximise the investors' profits.
I am also convinced that with increased awareness of the importance of advertising, consumers, both men and women, will start to refuse to buy products which use this kind of advertising.
Even if food products derived from cloned animals were allowed on the EU market, I am convinced that, if they were clearly marked and people had to take a conscious decision to buy them, they would not find too many takers among EU consumers.
When you buy a product, you do not have to know what is in it.
The money that is spent on a single Sukhoi Su-30k aeroplane could buy around 200 000 MIT Media Lab XO laptops for our students.
These semantics would not go down very well, I fear, with the thousands upon thousands of grieving motherless children in the developing world, or with those children whose mothers have died in agony because there was no anaesthetic, or with a mother bleeding to death because there is no thread for stitches, or a mother dying because there is not the three cents to buy the magnesium sulphate that would save her from death through haemorrhaging.
For example, the inclusion in an advertisement of a direct exhortation to children to buy products is banned across the European Union.
Poor African entrepreneurs have said to me they want access to capital markets in order to borrow money to buy a tractor so that they can plough the fields and create more wealth locally, so let us give them that ability and access to capital.
In my own country, England, I pay the same price for a ticket whether I buy it in the city of departure, city of arrival or a third city.
The thrust of this petition is that people should not be required to buy one particular computer program so that they can watch the material transmitted from the European Parliament and respond in the only permissible format.
I believe it will come as a surprise to most people that it is at all legal to buy illegal timber in the EU.
Obviously because it is very cheap to buy timber on the world market.
In reality, they are not being invested in alternative energies, for example, or in other important investment projects; instead, they are being used to buy up shares and pay dividends.
It is not obvious to consumers when they buy ketchup or yoghurt that they contain lots of sugar.
More than 70% of children ask their parents to buy them the foods they have seen advertised on television.
The ideal mix, I believe, is to have patient mobility and to encourage Member States to buy in expert services, not just to treat one patient but to treat groups suffering from the same condition.
We cannot quietly accept the cynical argument that there is enough food on a global scale but not everyone has enough money to buy expensive food.
First of all, it is refundable: when the exporter goes to buy something from the importer, he can deduct the amount of duty paid.
Secondly, it is negotiable, because if the exporting company, which has paid duty, has nothing to buy from the importer, it can sell its customs credit on the stock market or to a bank.
Now that we see prices - not commodity prices, as it is right that prices have been going down today, but the prices of seeds and fertilisers - skyrocketing, we have suggested our facility to try and help the least developed countries, the poorest countries in the world, and put them in a position to buy seeds and fertilisers.
We know that climate change has caused the North Sea to warm up by one and a half degrees and the fighter plankton that the cod larvae feed on have moved hundreds of miles north, which is why most of the big mature cod that we buy in the shops anywhere in Europe comes from around Norway, the Faroes and Iceland.
Russia needs to sell its mineral raw materials, it needs to buy western technology, expertise, consumer goods and many other things. Only then will Russia have a chance to modernise and gradually reform both its economy and its society.
This means that it is a matter of who is going to buy expensive vehicles in a situation where consumption is falling and we are heading into recession. And yet here we are imposing another burden through this directive on local and regional authorities.
I absolutely believe that, by then, the idea of using taxpayers' money, that is to say the pound in people's pockets, to buy anything that is less than environmentally friendly will be unimaginable.
What would you say if you were to buy a product in your home country whose packaging was in a language you did not understand, with only a small sticker on it, and small, chopped-up blister packs inside?
I fail to see why someone should be exempted from safety requirements just because they buy cheaply in one Member State a medicinal product that is sold for a higher price in another Member State, bring it back into the more expensive country, and resell it for a high price there.
Much has already been said about this, but I should also like to point out that the rule that consumers must be informed either in the language of their country of residence or in their mother tongue will also ultimately force a significant proportion of disreputable contract models out of the market and thus, in general, put the timeshare market back on a respectable basis, while also ensuring that consumers wishing to buy into holidays in such facilities can do so with complete confidence.
Many consumers decide to buy such services while they are captivated by the charms of the place they are holidaying in, which unfortunately is used by unscrupulous traders who fail to give them the full information about the services being offered.
When they went to Spain at great expense, they found there was nobody to buy their timeshare, but this company wanting to sell them other timeshares.
We need to convince the Council not just to sermonise about the need to help the poorest of the poor, but to work with us to find the resources - yes, and where from? - so that we can provide direct food aid and buy seed and fertiliser.
Mr President, I see that millions of euros of public money are still being allocated to social engineering and to buy popular support for the EU itself in candidate countries, Member States and elsewhere.
Honourable Member, the question is an extremely delicate one: if Mr Albertini, who is always very generous, would like to buy us a coffee, we could discuss it and hear the experience of a mayor of a large European city.
(PT) Many of us here in this House use the Internet to book our flights and buy our tickets.
We want to ensure fair and transparent competition between the major European airports and, in this way, not only help to refine the internal market, but also reduce the costs incurred by passengers when they buy their tickets.
For this reason, it is essential that we put a stop to his plans quickly, for the sake of his own population, but also for the sake of populations of other nations which he is attempting to buy or blackmail with his oil wealth, in order to impose his ideology on them.
Under the present circumstances, Hungary itself is not able to buy up the surplus; nevertheless, there are other ways to stabilise the market.
Why, if I am travelling to Singapore from Luxembourg, via Frankfurt or Paris, can I not buy duty-free in the airport of departure?
Secondly, on sea and air travel, the Internal Market Committee believes strongly that travellers - based on their final destination, as opposed to a transit destination - should be allowed to buy duty-free because that would help small regional airports generate revenue.
in writing. - The common agricultural policy forces British consumers to buy food at inflated prices from continental farmers rather than at lower prices available on the world market.
We all agree on how important this scheme is in terms of teaching children to adopt healthy habits and therefore combat obesity, but also in terms of helping families who cannot afford to buy fruit for their children.
If you do not have people to put them on the roof - who can pay for them and buy them - you will not have people who will make them.
When we are over this, will consumers really want to buy a big high-consumption car, or will they want a small, smart car?
It is clear that, in this situation, consumers who are unclear about their own economic future, who do not know whether they will still have a job next year, whether their income will be as high, or whether they will still have their capital, are not going to rush out and buy a new car.
Consumers do not know, for example, whether they can count on tax incentives or allowances if they buy or do not buy certain cars. It is therefore necessary for the statutory conditions for the industry to be cleared up as soon as possible.
Porsche has found a new way of making money, and that is to take up options to buy shares in Volkswagen. That, however, is not a solution to VW's problems or those of other car factories.
The bank crisis has brought with it a car crisis: in a deflating economy, people cannot afford to buy new cars or the fuel to put in them.
The loose money which consumers used to buy new cars in recent years has gone, and it is not coming back.
What we should be discussing today are the consequences of the European Union's interest rate policy on thousands and thousands of families who have taken out mortgages to buy houses, the consequences of liberalisation and privatisation on public services, and the consequences of low pensions on the independence and quality of life of millions of pensioners.
These measures would supposedly provide financing for citizens to buy new cars.
First, the need for facilities producing energy to buy carbon emission permits at auction will lead to a significant rise in energy prices, especially in countries where coal plays a major role in power generation.
The brokers' model is an opportunity to speculate three times over for those who do not need emission rights for production but who buy them to sell them to manufacturing companies at a high price.
They can buy the rights at auctions and on the secondary market at emission rights exchanges, and still speculate in them on the power exchanges.
Therefore I voted to support this proposal to take EUR 1 billion of unspent support for EU farmers and use it to assist struggling farmers in developing countries to buy essential items such as seeds and fertilisers.
For ordinary citizens, it is difficult to understand what it means to buy or sell pollution allowances for CO2 or what the risks of carbon leakage are. However, what they have to understand is that Europe has become the champion in dealing with climate change and will continue to be so for the future.
Warnings that are important when deciding whether or not to buy the toy must also be visible to the consumer, irrespective of whether the toy is purchased from a shop or via the Internet.
The basic aim was to provide the best possible protection for children, better guarantees for parents that the toys which they buy for their children meet high safety standards and more stringent penalties for manufacturers who fail to meet the demands in question.
The fragrances do nothing for the children or for the toy. To learn what flowers or fruit smell like it is better to buy the natural article.
Finally, the Member States' armed forces will also have greater security of supply and greater choice in the quality of their weaponry - quite easily, if they can buy within the European Union, which should be an incentive to purchase European goods rather than looking outside Europe.
We cannot under any circumstances accept a situation whereby countries with a more tolerant attitude towards undemocratic and belligerent states buy weapons from Sweden in order to then export them on again, beyond Swedish control.
This fact is less noticed by the public as most people do not buy heavy-duty vehicles.
Financial inducements are needed if our regulation is to attain its aim and serve a purpose, that is to say, for it to be possible to buy and sell new generation vehicles.
I do not see it like that, as the Euro standard and the Euro exhaust gas standard have been a success story and technical innovations have always fuelled the market and energised consumers to buy new vehicles.
If you want to sell me something and I want to buy it from you and both customer and retailer are content with the units of measurement, surely it is not for any national government, let alone the European Union, to come between them and declare their transaction illegal?
In addition, reviving the Lisbon Treaty that was rejected in a national referendum in Ireland makes a mockery of democracy. Do not delude yourself, Sir, into thinking that one additional seat in the European Parliament will enable you to buy greater support for Lisbon in Poland.
We are in wartime. Rules of war prevail, but even in wartime the Geneva Convention applies, and it does not, of course, allow banks that have been recapitalised by the state to use this aid to buy up other banks.
We could soon see German energy suppliers generating electricity in Poland rather than in Germany, unless they buy it from the French.
When you add to this another week of decision-making by competent authorities, this means seven weeks. Seven weeks is a very long time for depositors who are unable to buy food, pay bills or use their payment cards.
Following a campaign to save energy and encourage people to buy these bulbs, the price has now risen to over 10 zlotys.
First of all, they should transfer part of their industry to the EU's less developed countries or buy up allowances from them.
The Directive relating to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) updates the existing ETS and stipulates that industries must now buy the emission allowances, which were previously free, at auction.
With the facility for European countries to buy a large portion of the pollution units which 'correspond' to them from developing countries, the historic responsibility of the western world is cynically being shifted to the poorer inhabitants of the planet.
What is more, there is no certainty that the investments via the CDM really make any difference. It is also unethical to buy the easiest efforts in third countries.
In reality, this will mean that the richest countries would buy themselves free of the necessary switchover and so will not invest in the technological development that is necessary to meet the long-term target of an 80% reduction.
It is in fact because we found out that there was this meat with dioxin - because of the traceability of the traders, and of where they buy and where they deliver their meat - that we were immediately able to withdraw it.
Other solutions must therefore be considered. These include, for example, forcing Member States to provide the agency with certain equipment or to allow the agency to lease or buy its own equipment.
What we do not believe is that we should criminalise individuals who download the odd pirated song or pirated music or who buy a fake CD or fake football shirt.
Although a majority of European consumers have repeatedly stated that they are against GMOs, surveys show that they do buy GM foods when they are available in supermarkets.
Many consumers are just not aware that GM food is sold in Europe or simply fall into the trap of illegible labels and end up not knowing what they buy.
It is important for it to be stated that a product comes from the EU Member States. People will then choose to buy such a product in particular.
It seems to me that they are aiming to buy time in these negotiations and I believe that only political measures will help solve the political problem until the technical questions surrounding transit are resolved.
Why not buy gas on the Ukrainian-Russian border?
However, the campaigning by France and Germany to get the EU to buy in milk powder and butter and to start subsidising the export of dairy products does not bode well. This is the politics of small-minded self-interest instead of statesmanship.
Now I want to add something and inform the Commissioner that in fact she has the rather difficult task of resolving a certain dilemma. On one hand consumers of course want to buy cheaper products, in other words at a low price, irrespective of whether the goods come from China or from some other country, and on the other hand they must know that the cost of this may be that their own fellow citizens lose their jobs.
Ukraine would, quite naturally, clearly much rather buy the gas from Russia and then sell it on to us, naturally for an additional charge, as would Turkey in relation to Nabucco, but I will return to that later.
Today, Lithuania buys gas for around USD 500, while other EU states, which are much further from Russia than Lithuania, pay less for gas.
Secondly, the commitments of individuals countries to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 20% by 2020, along with the need to buy emission permits, will result in a significant increase in the price of electricity and heating for individuals and even higher costs for the industrial sector, especially in the new Member States, such as Poland, where the energy sector relies on coal.
In Germany, if the CEO of Deutsche Bank, Josef Ackermann, decides to scrap his nine year-old third, fourth or fifth car and buy a new Porsche Cayenne, he will receive EUR 4 000. This is neither socially nor environmentally-minded.
We need to tackle credit; we need to help public buyers back into the market to buy the green buses, the green trucks, the green cars - after all, there will be things following through there.
There are Member States - as you know better than we do - that promise cheap loans for car manufacturers, provided that these car manufacturers buy parts from local suppliers in that country.
Mr Vondra, I expect from the Council that the Member States during the European Council's meeting in March will approve a scrapping scheme that will directly boost the purchasing power of consumers intending to buy new cars.
Farmers like to buy ingredients and to mix their own rations, and generally larger farmers do this.
Irish consumers continued to buy pork as it became available on the supermarket shelves, and there was an early resumption in trading in most European and international markets.
The pertinent point is that Millstream chose to buy in that oil, knowing it was looking for oil to use in dryers - to deal with feedstuff, to dry the breadcrumbs - so why was it buying oil of that sort, no matter where it came from?
Consumers need to be protected and they must be able to tell where and how the food they buy has been produced.
Yes, farmers are entitled to maximum information on compound contents, but within the confines of preserving the viability and the future of the mills from which they buy.
The provisions laid down in this report have the advantage of representing a minimal cost for the industries and a great benefit for consumers, who are paying more and more attention to the quality of the goods they buy.
I think we have a golden opportunity to discuss this quality issue that is also linked to how we promote our products in the Third World, how we explain to consumers what they get when they buy European.
Is it really reasonable for the EU to use European taxpayers' money in advertising campaigns to convince the same citizens that they should buy the goods that they have already subsidised?
In January 2009, a new advertising campaign was initiated in Sweden, Finland and Denmark in which the Swedish people were urged to buy more tulips.
I hope that this measure can be part of a wider approach adopted by the EU and national authorities to make it attractive to buy local, to build up local economies and consumer confidence.
VAT reductions across the world are used to encourage people to buy energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly fridges, freezers and other goods that use up large amounts of energy, and cheaper prices for these products will help the less well-off.
It is not the Commission's job to constantly attempt to buy countries because of an initiative that has been rejected by various political camps.
The mandatory introduction of new safety technology such as ESP will mean that, in future, it will not only be those who buy premium cars who will benefit from a higher standard of safety on the road, but also the drivers of goods vehicles.
I was interested when I saw an advertisement the other day in an American magazine sponsored by the American car companies, which said, 'You did not want to buy our cars.
Because the companies were not supplying the goods and services that consumers wanted to buy, we are now throwing aside rules on state aid and keeping up companies that may not survive in the long term.
To ensure good food quality, consumers must also be given complete information on the products they buy, the ingredients, any genetic modifications, the place of manufacture, the storage conditions, how to prepare it and the use by date.
In order to combat the current crisis, we give up nearly new cars to buy other brand new ones, wasting considerable material resources in the process.
Go to Mali and see the diabetes out of control and look at the cost to families: over 30% of their family income spent on insulin, if they have to buy it - and they do have to buy it.
But the problem is, to quote the Beatles: 'Money can't buy you love'.
Commissioner, I should like to start by asking a very simple question: when consumers go to supermarkets to buy milk or yoghurt, why do they buy it?
Balancing such measures as making low-interest loans available and simplifying administrative procedures for obtaining financial resources, and on the other hand creating incentives for consumers to buy new cars, can help to stimulate the market.
- Madam President, my two colleagues and I will be very happy to buy lunch for you, and for your two colleagues on either side, though I am not sure whether you would enjoy our company any more than you enjoy our speeches.
I therefore support coordinated political action at European level to encourage the adoption of measures in support of the industry, such as: securing access to credit for car producers and suppliers; stimulating demand for new vehicles, including the granting of incentives to scrap old cars and buy 'green' cars; financially supporting skilled workers by fully using the Globalisation Adjustment Fund and the European Special Fund; and encouraging research and investment.
In 1970, an industrial worker had to work for 243 minutes in order to be able to buy a kilogram of pork chops, a kilogram of beef, a kilogram of dark wheat and rye bread, ten eggs, 250 grams of butter, a kilogram of potatoes and a litre of milk; in 2008 he had to work only 82 minutes.
But now, when there is very little in intervention - and we are hearing now that we have to buy in food even from outwith the EU and use the CAP budget to store and distribute this food - this surely is becoming something that should be better handled by Member States' social policy.
Although the average quality of life in the European Union is among the highest in the world, some citizens are unable to buy enough food to eat.
Real help in such cases means giving them the right to take action collectively, wherever they buy goods and services.
This is not the direction we should be moving in, and that is why we need to ponder these matters nationally, and, more than anything, establish a system in which farmers, the producers of food, can survive, and in which people can buy good quality, healthy food at a reasonable price.
Indeed, it is often large processing companies that buy produce from farmers and abuse their dominant market position in order to sell the produce on to distributors at exorbitant prices.
In my homeland, we see neo-Nazis trying to buy property almost on a weekly basis. If property is being rented or sold, we cannot prevent left-wing or right-wing extremists from taking it.
With the revised system, we shall be in a position to address consumers' increasing demand for objective, impartial and reliable information on the environmental impact of the products which they buy.
We can target consumers through the products they buy, recommending those products which are environmentally friendly and fit the requirement of sustainable development.
It is about more customer and consumer satisfaction. It is about avoiding market distortions, especially between those countries which produce cheaply and those countries which wish to buy cheaply, which are not necessarily the same.
(DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that we wanted to ensure that citizens got greater security of supply with regard to energy, that they had sufficient energy and that they were able to buy energy at reasonable prices.
I think that the European Parliament's next task should be to see that those states that directly border the sea can both preserve their traditional way of life and also, in practical terms, be engaged in fishing, since nowadays it often happens that our fishing villages are forced to buy products from large companies, fishing in distant oceans.
The Union must view the world cotton market as a whole and give EU consumers the opportunity to buy cotton as cheaply as possible without the consideration of where it has been produced, provided it has been produced under certain ethical and environmentally sound conditions.
With the labelling process consumers will be able to make an informed choice when buying tyres but also when deciding on which car to buy.
People and companies happily invest time and money in the hope of finding a product - in this case, music - that people will like and want to buy.
The ink on the London statement was not even dry when the main member state of the G20, the United States, called on the speculative funds that are comfortably installed in the tax havens to buy at a knock-down price the toxic assets that are blocking the balance sheets of the US banks.
Then, of course, the risks start to become reality, but then those leading the company have already left or will have to leave. They get to buy chateaux in France or play golf in Spain.
in writing. - I have been lobbied heavily by animal rights groups and constituents about this issue but I am very sceptical in principle about banning things. Ultimately consumers will decide if they want to buy seal products.
Korean customers buy some EUR 25 billion worth of EU goods every year. This makes Korea one of our most important export markets in Asia.
You are threatening to buy most of our CO2 reductions from developing countries instead of ensuring we emit less ourselves.
At the same time there is a clear understanding that EU companies are ready to buy the gas, and we are moving forward towards it.
However, questions need to be answered on the recent agreement between Mr Putin and Turkey, on the quantity of gas from Azerbaijan vis-à-vis the investment, on Gazprom's offer to buy all Azerbaijan's exports, on the stability of Iraqi supply, and on the Russian promise to pump double the amount through South Stream.
Of course, it is not the owners of private aircraft who suffer, but people who are often less well-off, who save for many months to buy a ticket to fly abroad.
Certainly, European legislation protects passengers who have purchased their ticket as part of a package holiday, but it does not protect those who buy their ticket on the Internet.
A large number of travellers now buy their flight tickets on the Internet.
I understand that, following the doubts the Commission expressed on the rightfulness of the bidding process, there will be a reassessment by GM and Opel Trust of the offers to buy Opel, based on commercial conditions.
The Commission expressed these doubts, and General Motors and Opel Trust are now reassessing the way in which the offer to buy Opel was made, and to verify whether, in fact, this offer was made on a commercial basis or not.
The possibility already exists today for Member States to buy up quotas. What we are introducing here is the possibility that the Member States simply reduce the overall national ceiling of the quota with the amount of quotas they have been buying out of the market.
I find this voluntary arrangement to buy back milk quotas counterproductive. I believe this not only because this arrangement will initially mean that we retain a quota increase which it will then be very difficult to rein back in.
They do not want to buy refrigerators or milking machines now, this is not the time for further investment.
The quota they buy out can be kept in the national reserve and distributed at a later stage if Member States so wish.
In order to fight against AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and other infectious diseases, these countries need vaccines to which they currently do not have access and which they cannot buy.
Adam Smith observed that a market economy cannot function if consumers do not receive sufficient information to be able to make choices when they buy products and it is therefore absolutely necessary for us to have this origin marking.
This happens all over the world. For most of the countries from which one would buy the kind of products we have listed, you already know where you buy from.
This should not lead to any increase in prices, which consumers will certainly appreciate, especially those who decide what to buy based on the price of a product.
Against a backdrop of economic crisis that is hitting our European businesses, the European Union must now, more than ever, equip itself with a mandatory system of origin marking, if only for a limited number of imported goods, namely textiles, jewellery, clothing and footwear, leather goods and handbags, lamps and lights, and glassware, because this is precious information for final consumers. It would also enable European consumers to know exactly which country the goods they buy come from.
I voted in favour because the 'made in' marking is essential for market transparency and for giving consumers the necessary information regarding the origin of the products they buy.
The particular purpose of origin marking is to give EU consumers unrestricted information about the country of origin of the goods that they buy and to allow them to make a connection between the goods and the social, environmental and safety standards in the country in question.
For example, if European Social Fund (ESF) money is used to pay the salary of a public administrator or if European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) money is used to buy a building plot, then the people concerned obviously do not have sufficient information about the correct use of aid funding or the Member States do not have the will or the ability to administer the funding correctly, or perhaps all of the above.
Look at how easy it is nowadays to download music from the internet. You simply go to iTunes and buy songs for 20, 30, 40 or 50 cents.
First of all: the Google Books Project. In essence, it is an initiative aimed at providing a tool to find, search and buy books for a wide audience of users.
Each and every one of us has experienced the situation of lending a much-loved book, not having it returned and then not being able to buy it anywhere because it is out of print.
Consumers want to buy high-quality food that is produced as close to home as possible.
Particularly before Christmas - you mentioned this, Commissioner - it needs to be possible for parents and grandparents to be certain which toys are safe for their children or grandchildren and which toys they can buy for them.
These relate directly to the health of our children, who play with the toys that we buy them.
(PL) The subject of toy safety arouses very great interest, especially during the pre-Christmas period, when we are thinking about which toys to buy for the youngest among us.
We have done nothing to move into the vacuum and buy goods produced in Georgia to ensure that the country is able to function.
In late 2008, in tense talks between the Latvian Government, the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the Swedish Government, a decision was taken to buy up the second largest commercial bank, using only Latvian taxpayers' money, and to keep the national exchange rate strong.
The European Union's cohesion policy tries to gloss over this anti-grassroots policy, to buy people off, to disorientate the workers and, more importantly, to secure the profitability of capital.
Another important factor is that people in many parts of the world are living in poverty and in inhumane conditions, with the result that they can easily fall prey to those wanting to buy and sell human beings.
The people affected are not people of great wealth, they are simply people who have used the fruits of their labours to buy a house in this country with its mild climate and good people, a place to live when they retire.
If this is not possible, they need to be granted a fair compensation that allows them to buy a similar property.
When you want to start a major project, you do not first buy the furniture and then build a house around it.
It really is still much too easy to buy or set up a front company in order to avoid taxation.
General Motors will still take a share of the profits and Saab Spyker will be obliged to buy fully assembled cars from another General Motors plant, one located in that well-known European nation of Mexico.
Japan, where apparently the word 'conservation' actually means buy en masse, kill the fish, and freeze them for 20 or 30 years so that they can be eaten in a couple of decades time.
Fathers still sell their daughters or swap them for cattle. The men who buy wives treat them like slaves.
The crux of this is that subject B is not taxed at all although the basis of his business is to buy low and sell high.
Will it now become the norm for the German Government to buy from tax investigators data that has been obtained illegally?
Personally I would rather buy shoes, but others do other things for their kicks.
It is not necessary to buy CDs from Switzerland; there is another way to go about this.
You may try to buy some time by proposing the use of the best modern-day techniques as the only option for solving the problems. Ultimately, however, it is a different rail policy that we need in Europe.
There are countries, such as Ireland and Sweden, in which this proportion is as high as 40%, while almost two-thirds of the people who buy their holidays in this way do not realise that their interests are protected to a significantly lower degree than in the case of people who still buy holidays in the traditional way.
I hope that, today, we will hear from the Commission specifically when the directive will be revised and what direction the revision will take. For it must not be the case that in the European Parliament or in other EU institutions, we encourage citizens of the Union to use the services of e-commerce and also to buy services in cross-border trade, while at the same time not offering the same protection to the people who do this.
The rise in the level of Internet use and the emergence of low-cost operators have made 23% of European tourists and 20% of European households buy customised package holidays via specialist websites.
In other words, they have the facility, via the Internet, not to buy ready packages, as we have learned to do in the past, and to pick and choose how they wish to plan their holidays.
We do not want to bulldoze workers' rights, but we do want these workers to also be able to buy the products that they value.
The attitude of European consumers, which is directly affected by the impact of the economic recession, is particularly evident in relation to the goods and services which they buy and want at good quality so that they can consume as many of these items as possible.
It is not justified to buy insurance and buy unseen interventions on a risk on a purely speculative basis.
Modern flats have been built and given to them, the same which other people have to buy.
Yesterday, for example, there was a story going around in the media that the Ministry of Defence had paid out an awful lot of money to the families of victims of violence in order to buy their silence.
I believe it is nonsense for bureaucrats in Brussels to be telling consumers that they can buy only straight bananas or straight cucumbers.
Surely it is up to consumers to make these decisions as to what they want to buy, so I hope that Parliament will use its common sense and back the joint amendment that has been submitted by the Greens and the ECR Group to throw out the straight banana rules and leave consumers free to chose whether they want to eat bent or twisted fruit and vegetables or whether they do not.
The Member States in the euro area should make euro loans available, the European Central Bank should buy up debts in the same way that the Federal Service in the USA has done and credit default swaps should be banned.
It is still not possible to buy a rail ticket which will take you from northern Europe to the south, travelling right across the continent.
Currently in Europe, it is not possible to buy a train ticket in a civilised manner.
It is European consumers who fear agricultural price rises, which limit their purchasing power and impact on their ability to buy agricultural products.
Allegations have been made of fraudulent activity at that College, including the use of taxpayers' money by staff to buy furniture for their personal use.
We are giving them money to buy our weapons.
If they are developed to order, then the vehicles will be unacceptably expensive and nobody will buy them.
There is also the option not to buy electric cars; no one is forcing Europeans to buy them.
Authorised service stations, too, must have the right to buy parts from independent producers, as well as the tools and equipment used in their workshops.
Consumers have a right to buy not only healthy food, but also food which has been produced healthily.
We believe that consumers are entitled to this information when they buy an item, and it should not be concealed.
Those who buy must know what they are buying, and those who seek quality must find quality!
The denim capital of Europe is on the banks of that river, which is highly polluted because they export their cheap products to the EU, the US and other markets - and consumers buy them.
Similarly, as far as the energy labelling of energy using products is concerned, I feel consumers should be aware of the energy characteristics of the products they buy.
The report also calls on the Commission to consider labelling which would give consumers access to information on the social and environmental manufacturing conditions of the products they buy.
After I graduated, my income was also above the threshold, but I was able to keep on my rented accommodation for a quite a few years before deciding once and for all to buy and to go and live somewhere else.
As an example of such measures, could airline companies not have offered to buy train tickets to avoid long queues at train ticket offices, especially for passengers with reduced mobility?
I am sure that the lovely farm owned by Mr Daul is covered by a fire insurance policy. If I, Martin Schulz, can buy Mr Daul's fire insurance policy and if I receive the insurance payment instead of him when his house burns down, then I simply need someone, for example Mr Cohn-Bendit, who is prepared to set light to the house and I am a made man.
One concerns the pension fund of the Californian teachers' union which wanted to buy a German airline via a hedge fund.
I still think that banning some products or additives is not a solution and perhaps we have to agree with the argument that it is the consumer who has the right to choose, having full information, what he wants to buy and what he wants to consume.
In this day and age, the age of public awareness, with a lot of accessible information, we have yet to formulate wordings, unambiguous of course, that are acceptable to society, so that when people buy one product or another, they can obtain appropriate information and can understand what the product's ingredients are.
Much is said about the rights of consumers to know about the food, domestic equipment or home fittings which they buy.
This means raising consumers' awareness of the energy-related consequences of their choice whenever they look to buy any consumer item which has a bearing on energy efficiency.
Of course, the public procurement process should set a good example in this respect. However, the Member States must not be told that they can only buy products with the highest performance levels which belong to the highest energy efficiency class.
In addition, reconstituted meat could mislead consumers seeking to buy meat.
Consumer protection is one of the European Parliament's key tasks and European consumers are often unaware of the nature of the products they are about to buy and the additives they contain.
This being the case, the European Central Bank was right to announce that it would buy back some debt to enable Member States to diversify their sources of finance.
Citizens need to buy into that process, but it is there for them to do.
We have this instrument of huge potential and, particularly with public budgets still amounting to 16% of the European economy, why are we not using our public procurement budgets to drive innovation, to buy those new technologies, to encourage SMEs to take those up?
I do not accept the view, and I certainly do not believe, that business is able to buy the curiosity and the creativity that we so desperately need through their financial input.
The principle that consumers should know what they eat should apply not only to prepacked foods but also to food that they buy over the counter or when they eat out.
Of course, simply ensuring consumers can easily identify the nutritional content of their food is not a magic cure, but it will enable consumers to be more aware of the food they buy, compare products and identify the healthiest option at a glance, thus taking control of what they eat.
It is no stranger to have a colour coding system for nutrient content than to warn consumers when they buy an energy guzzling car or an energy intensive refrigerator.
We urgently need feasible, mandatory country of origin labelling so that consumers can make an informed decision as to which foods they buy from which region.
The adoption of clear, intelligible food labelling is a step in this direction and may, in fact, influence consumers' choices by encouraging them to buy healthier products from a guaranteed source.
We consumers are entitled to a clear overview of the composition of the food that we buy without having to be trained chemists or clinical dieticians.
Consumers do indeed continue to occupy a special place in our decision-making process when it comes to safeguarding both their health and the quality of the goods that they buy.
The report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food information to consumers, which will be put to the vote today during the plenary sitting of the European Parliament, is another step towards enabling consumers to obtain the information they need about a product and thereby make an informed decision about whether to buy it.
Every orthodox economist would suggest that what we need to do at a time like this is to allow some of the eurozone economies to print their own currencies again, to devalue, to buy themselves time to price themselves back into the market.
As Maurice Allais says, until such time as it is no longer possible to use credit ex nihilo to buy without having and to sell without owning, capitalism will go from boom to bust, with increasingly devastating consequences for nations and economies.
However, I would say that it has always been well known to every investor that this potential for conflict existed and that credit ratings are themselves not a recommendation to buy or sell.
They also serve to give investors some guidance but, as I said, not buy and sell decisions.
My final point is that this only buys us time, and the essence is that we have to engage in a very serious campaign of fiscal consolidation in Europe, where the past two years have wiped out 20 years of fiscal consolidation in the past two decades.
Let me suggest that it might have something to do with the deal that they have struck with the European Union, whereby they are in the free market, in the four freedoms - free movement of goods and services and people and capital - but they are outside the common fisheries policy and outside the common agricultural policy, they control their own borders and determine who can cross them, they settle their own human rights issues, they control their own energy reserves and they can buy and sell to third countries without being subject to the common external tariff.
Our commercial banks have got themselves into a terrible problem because they buy junk debt. They redistributed junk debt repackaged at triple A ratings.
Yet this morning, we heard from John Ging, the director of operations for UNRWA, that in practice, although food is now being allowed in by Israel, people cannot afford to buy it because nothing is being allowed in for commerce or business to create the employment and the job prospects to give them sufficient income.
We are adopting a cautious approach in this House until we know all the facts and can be sure that our citizens can buy food which is totally safe in our supermarkets and then eat it afterwards.
I think it is very important for farmers right now that a clear signal be sent to them as to what is likely to happen, so that they will not be left to wild speculation, not knowing whether to buy or sell stock based on the historic model.
Europe buys 38 million tonnes of soya and feed for cattle.
It would appear as if they are lining up a deal and will be using agricultural standards as a currency to buy a deal with Mercosur countries.
Consumers want to know more about the seafood they buy. They want to know where the fish was caught or raised; also they want to know whether the products respect the environment and whether they have been fished sustainably.
Since we are bringing this into international negotiations, our European policy must be exemplary and we must move in the direction of having more and better paid fishermen who do not overexploit fish stocks, either in our territorial waters or in those in which we buy fishing rights.
The proposal would involve creating a new system which would allow the European Central Bank to buy - including via the creation of money, as all banks in the world do now - all or part of the debt of the Member States if necessary, and, at the same time, to set up a European fund for human, social and ecological development.
We do also need to ask - and I am thinking here about silent partnership reserves - how this will actually be effected in future, if we buy the regulations as they are envisaged in Basel.
They put lethal drugs on the market much earlier than the Member States manage to ban their sale under national law, and among the people who buy them, the conviction arises that designer drugs, because they have not been banned, are not harmful either.
Austerity measures of unprecedented severity are being implemented by a government which is indifferent to the hardships endured by millions of Romanians, virtually doomed to suffer from cold and hunger and being unable to buy medicines.
This regulation will help offset an imbalance suffered hitherto by European consumers who, compared to citizens of countries outside the EU, do not have the right to choose what they buy in the full knowledge of its provenance.
Madam President, if you were to visit the Ponte Rialto in Venice - perhaps with Commissioner De Gucht - and wanted to buy a pair of shoes advertised as Italian, a tie, a traditional mask or a glass from Murano, there is a chance you will be ripped off, realising that the product purchased was not made in Italy at all, but in some country in Asia.
(SK) Thanks to an open trade policy, our citizens can buy products made all over the world.
I listened carefully to the words of my Swedish colleague, Mr Fjellner, who hails from Stockholm, to whom I feel the need to respond that I would like to have the confidence to go to his country to buy a typical Swedish-made suit in the certainty that it really was made in Sweden.
I should feel quite a fool if I went all the way to Sweden to buy something that was produced in my local area.
The reason why this proposal dating back to 2005 is not EU legislation is simply that the Council does not buy it.
I would also like to state that indicating the country of origin increases consumer awareness and transparency when deciding to buy specific products, and prevents possible fraudulent claims about the origin of products or counterfeiting.
Indicating the country of origin allows citizens to make informed choices when they buy a particular product, and enables them to avoid the health and safety risks associated with third-country products which do not meet quality standards.
With a vote in favour today, the people of Europe will have the right to know the origin of what they buy.
I support this report because I firmly believe that origin marking based on a clear and effective method is necessary information for European consumers, who have to be able to choose to buy a product knowing where it has come from.
European consumers have the right to know where the products that they buy come from, so that they can make informed choices.
The introduction of a European marking system for manufactured goods imported from third countries must enable consumers to know exactly which country the goods they buy come from.
European consumers have a right, in fact, to know the origin of the goods they buy and hence to enjoy the same rights as the citizens of other countries.
European citizens have the right to know the origin of the goods they buy in the same way as other consumers throughout the world.
Furthermore, the right for European citizens to know the origin of the products they buy will be guaranteed.
Consumers must be able to benefit from a single level of protection, no matter what they buy, and farmers must be rewarded for their tremendous efforts, not subjected to de facto unfair competition on the part of third countries. That is my idea of a balanced food and agriculture policy, anyway.
The unilateral decisions of the US Federal Reserve to buy USD 600 billion of US government bonds, decisions which were taken without consulting the EU, will weaken Europe's economic position.
Only people who believe in their work put up with what are now grave conditions, frequently living in often difficult circumstances and having to buy their means of production at very high prices.
Due to the lack of funds to buy the quantities of feed needed for the winter, many Bulgarian farmers will be forced to slaughter their animals.
However, we are also aiming to put an end to misleading advertisements on the Internet that encourage people to buy products that not only do not cure, but may even harm patients.
Europe and the World has an abundance of people who need to buy food. The mechanism of the market, if left to itself, would meet the needs of supply and demand at competitive prices.
I also feel that it is not so important to have ambitious plans as it is to have real plans, that is, real infrastructures, interconnectors, a real opportunity for people to choose the energy supplier they will buy energy from, and of course, a real market price.
The USA, with its new Republican majority in the House, will not buy Cap and Trade.
If the rich countries buy permits from the poor countries in order to carry on producing emissions, it will not help the climate in any way.
The users' interests are more diverse and therefore, there is not a single interest that can lead to a conflict of interest. There are users who prefer a good rating, for instance, when they want to sell shares, and those who prefer a bad rating, for instance when they want to buy shares.
But what have you actually achieved in Cancún beyond handing over masses of taxpayers' money in the guise of the Green Climate Fund, which I suggest will end up being a lucky bag for African dictators to buy themselves more Mercedes Benzes and private jets?
I will take today as my starting point. At the moment, I believe it to be the wrong approach to essentially buy ourselves a little leeway with binding targets and percentages.
Europeans are preparing to make their Christmas purchases, and we must guarantee that the products that they buy comply with all the safety requirements.
It is eighteen months today since we had a new directive; and yet, here we are again today, like last year, as the Chair quite rightly pointed out, talking about the same subject, the safety of toys, and this year, things are even more serious, because we have a recession and, in a recession, parents who want to buy toys and are short of money will go to the section of the market that sells sub-standard toys.
On the other hand, reviewing the Treaty at this time will open up a Pandora's box, and in any case, I would have liked an answer to one question: will the new mechanism be able to buy government bonds?
It must not be idealised, however: advertising can also involve unfair practices, intrude into public spaces such as advertising billboards and the private arena such as unsolicited e-mails, target vulnerable groups of people such as children and those in excessive debt, create potential entry barriers to the internal market where the outlay required is too high, distort the internal market by causing consumers to buy goods or services they would not normally have purchased and cause huge losses.
However, it is important to combat various abuses, among which I would highlight: unfair practices, the invasion of public and private space such as unsolicited emails, undue focus on vulnerable people and the possible distortion of the internal market, that is, thepurchase of goods and services that the consumers normally would not buy.
However, it must not be idealised: advertising can also involve unfair practices, intrude into public spaces (e.g. in the form of advertising billboards) and the private arena (e.g. in the form of unsolicited e-mails), target vulnerable groups of people (such as children and those in excessive debt), create potential entry barriers to the internal market (where the outlay required is too high) and distort the internal market (by causing consumers to buy goods or services they would not normally have purchased).
A regime that was so special that it prompted the Portuguese Government to buy five million euros' worth of anti-riot gear, which did not even arrive in time for the Summit.
We will buy eggs for processing elsewhere, and we will close the proportion of EU production that went to that market.
Thus, it also clearly seems to be the case that we in the European Union have an excess of food, and there is, of course, always plenty to buy.
Now, people buy these products in large commercial chains and then wonder where all these diseases, cancers and tumours come from. It is, of course, obvious that they are caused by food colourings and artificial additives.
What also are you going to do to ensure that Commissioner Oettinger does not buy time in this way when it comes to energy efficiency?
In fact, we are patting ourselves on the back because the bond auctions in Portugal went well last week, whereas the reality is that the European Central Bank was actually using taxpayers' money to buy their own debt.
Whatever internal discussions take place, whether the financial facility will need to double its capital and the right to buy bonds, whether the Financial Stability Mechanism after 2013 will include trimming or will be ordered to sell eurobonds, are ideas that are not excluded by any Member State.
Emissions trading simply does not work; it is harmful. To take its place, we need a system of specific emissions, as there is with vehicles, where one can measure who is doing the emitting and what is being emitted, and not engage in an international trade in indulgence where people buy the right to pollute.
If we repeat the same old mistakes, our EUR 1 billion will only buy us the pretence of a market and competition.
The diagnosis has been made and the prescription is well known: the European Union must improve economic coordination, and make the European financial stabilisation fund stronger and more flexible, so that it can buy the public debt of the countries under the greatest pressure from the markets.
I would encourage colleagues to make an effort only to buy fair trade bananas and, if they see that they are not stocked in a supermarket, to complain.
With regard to the banana that you showed us, I think that if it had not conformed to the rules that you mention, you would not have been able to buy it.
The fact that you were able to buy it means that its size and curvature conform to European standards.
Our normal understanding of ownership is that if you sell me something and I buy it from you, it is then my responsibility.
I believe that we have launched an ambitious project which is achievable for industry and which will, in particular, give users the opportunity to buy affordable, modern vehicles with lower CO2 emissions.
Yes, of course, climate change exists, but commercial vehicles are not vehicles that people buy for the sheer pleasure of driving or because they are passionate about them.
Everyone who buys medicines on the Internet can do so independently. They can tell whether they are dealing with a safe, legal website or an illegal one.
Thus, in future, EU citizens will be able to buy cheaper technology products and cars from Korea. In return, Korea will get badly needed food from Europe as well as medicines and luxury goods.
In other words, should the European consumer choose to buy Korean products, rather than European ones, for the simple reason that the former may be better quality or cheaper, then trade barriers will once again be erected. Look how the vicious European reflex towards protectionism and market intervention is rearing its head again.
It is important that people should have food, that people should be able to buy food, and that, here in the EU, we should obviously also discuss the need to end the food scandals.
To achieve both ecological and economic sustainability it would be desirable to give priority to small, alternative, local energy projects, since this could prevent having to buy in energy that is often expensive.
Do not buy time, Commissioner.
On the merits, however, because I agree with many things other Members have said, I simply wanted to stress the importance of measuring the effects of fisheries agreements to ensure these are not just mere trade agreements enabling us to buy cephalopods for EUR 1 per kilo in Mauritania.
The forecast for 2011 is that the same customers will buy 57% of the total quantities placed on the market.
(ES) Mr President, women have always done the unseen work: doing the housework and providing emotional support; things that you cannot buy and for which you cannot hire somebody in.
In short, if these measures are implemented soon, they will make consumers more confident when they buy in the European market.
The fact that the World Health Organisation (WHO) accepted the alarm without acting independently through analyses of costs and risks undertaken by the European agencies, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA), led to costly and unnecessary vaccination campaigns and, in particular, encouraged the population to buy disproportionate quantities of sterile disposable material and disinfectants.
As it stands, the policy on high protein crops in Europe works to the disadvantage of farmers and producers, who are forced to pay quotas for them which are dependent on turbulence in the global market. It also works to the disadvantage of consumers, who buy meat and milk from animals fed with high protein feed.
So, President Barroso, and indeed Commissioner Olli Rehn, you do not have to convince me that economic governance is necessary, that it must be strong, and that all Member States, and particularly those in the eurozone, must buy into it.
To deal with the markets' irrational exuberance, the revision of the Treaty ought to have been an opportunity to authorise the European Central Bank to do what the United States does and buy back public debt in the event of exchange rate tensions.
Allow me to mention just three examples. Firstly, all consumers in Europe will have a 14-day withdrawal period when they buy something in an online shop in an EU Member State.
We have been trying to buy time with bailouts. What we need is major restructuring.
It is also important for consumers to be able to develop a sense of European law, in other words for it to be possible for them to be confident when they do business or when they buy or acquire something anywhere in the European Union.
The fragmentation of rules is, in fact, considered a deterrent for both consumers and businesses who buy or sell across borders.
We need to examine more closely the countries which are the starting point for trafficking gangs, where traffickers buy silence and consent from government officials, turning these countries into havens for human rights abuses.
Of course, some European countries are partly responsible, but in Africa, a number of capitalist systems interact that are not based on the social economy of labour, like our own, but are based on the state economy, state capitalism. The leading example is China, which buys sovereign debts and exploits entire populations.
I strongly reject accusations of European racism and xenophobia, because I am tired of watching illegal Tunisian migrants going on strike because they are not being given money to buy cigarettes, refusing to eat food containing tuna because it smells of fish, and, once in Italy, demanding housing and work (for free, of course), when we have our own indigenous unemployed and poor people.
Does it want to buy its way to power?
In our daily lives, we are all, by turns, consumers, service users, savers, shareholders, workers, craft workers, and the objective is that cross-border mobility should be made easier, that professional qualifications, skills and welfare rights should be respected and recognised, that we should be able to access high quality public services, that we should feel safe and protected when we buy products over the Internet or in any other way, and that we should not be taxed twice.
In relation to this, I think European Union Member States should not buy nuclear energy from these power stations if they do not pass stress tests which are the same as those required in the European Union.
Even Portugal's own banks are currently refusing to buy Portuguese bonds.
I support recognition of the Transitional National Council and the unfreezing of EU-frozen Gaddafi assets and releasing the money to the Benghazi pro-democracy forces to buy supplies and, yes, even to buy arms.
I never bought a dud bank for my clients, but over the past few years, I have had the politicians and bureaucrats put a gun to my head, as a taxpayer, and make me buy more dud banks than you could shake a stick at.
If I want to invest overseas, I will buy an emerging markets fund.
Consumers have a right to be able to buy healthy, fairly produced products throughout the European Union.
It would also harm EU ports, as many vessels would simply buy fuel outside the European Union.
In some Member States, it is currently possible to buy one gigabyte for less than EUR 1. I have just looked at my mobile phone to see how much it costs me.
Finally, I believe that the labelling requirement for non-textile parts of animal origin is a sign of real progress as it is consumers who do not want the textile products they buy to contain such materials.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to establish a European size labelling system based on body measurements, because the first thing we look for when we go to buy clothes is the size.
When used in garments, for example as trimmings, such materials are currently not subject to mandatory labelling; most consumers are unaware of this and may not know the exact make-up of the textiles they buy.
EU legislation providing for this already exists for footwear, and it makes sense to provide our consumers with the same level of information when they buy their clothes.
I know that there are financial problems, but we urgently need diplomatic representations in the area. We want to buy energy from these countries.
This provision is very useful, in particular, for those consumers who have an allergy to leather goods, and to consumers who, for ideological reasons, do not want to buy textiles containing elements of animal origin.
Consumers' awareness of the goods they buy is constantly growing.
I believe that consumers have the right to know what the products they buy are made from, and this report ensures that any animal-derived materials will be indicated on textile product labels.
This is good news not only for people who do not want to buy products that contain real fur or leather, but also for those who suffer from allergies.
Affordability is a concern, for example, for cultural organisations without a great deal of money which do not always have the funding to buy new equipment.
I have to say to the Commissioner and the representative of the Council: you are again proposing a ban on food from cloned animals but nobody can buy food from cloned animals.
It appears to me that we buy into the propaganda of whatever the flavour of the day happens to be.
Yet the policy of assisting governments by having the European Central Bank buy up their debts cannot go on for much longer, as it is reaching its limits.
While I have no idea how it will progress, we obviously need to try to ensure that European citizens, European retailers and European consumers benefit from what I would call equal rules, so that they can buy, sell and hence engage in business on the basis of these same rules.
I think it is inadequate and irresponsible to inform citizens on a given day about which food they should not buy or which food looks suspicious.
However, we must remember that transport firms, particularly during a crisis, will not be able to afford to change their fleets quickly and buy vehicles which comply with the Euro V and VI standards.
in writing. - I have spoken on this issue before and I am voting for this report because I believe EU citizens have the right to know the make-up of the clothes they buy.
Under this regulation, for example, the trimmings on collars will be labelled clearly and separately from the rest of the garment, allowing consumers to make an informed choice about the clothes they buy.
Allergy sufferers in particular stand to gain from this proposal, as fur is potentially hazardous to their health and without proper labelling, they may buy a product containing these textiles without realising it.
It should be noted, for example, that only 8% of consumers buy online from other Member States.
If we do not buy their energy products, then the Russian economy will encounter serious stability problems in the future.
That does not mean that we do not want a policy of good neighbourliness and dialogue. Yet Nizhny Novgorod - the venue for our meeting - should also serve as a warning, because it reminds us of the famous story of the merchants of Nizhny Novgorod who believed that they could buy their freedom and their security and were then hanged.
We have to realise that we cannot buy security with money or by glossing over reality; it is only obtainable through honest partnership.
What does he think if Germany, refusing to build nuclear plants on its own territory, accepts their being built at our borders and buys this 'dirty' power?
One of the steps that might encourage the European Union's neighbours to comply with the highest safety standards would be for the whole of the Union to refuse to buy electricity produced while failing to respect these standards.
In Russia, they obviously have to ensure that the dual identity that people could buy there previously can no longer be obtained.
If I go to the supermarket and buy a carton of milk, I pay value added tax. If I sell a financial product, I pay no tax.
Food security at EU and global level and globalisation necessitate a new and strong common agricultural policy, which will firstly improve our competitiveness on the international market, secondly ensure a fair income for farmers, thirdly ensure that consumers can buy high-quality products at fair prices, fourthly ensure the sustainable development of rural areas and fifthly help to improve the state of the environment.
in writing. - (PT) I voted for this report because it contributes to increasing the confidence and protection of consumers when they buy on the Internet, and to reducing the reluctance of businesses to sell in other EU countries.
Furthermore, it is not stating the obvious to say that payments based on the two pillars of the CAP are not mere public resources, but actually buy a public good that may not be sufficiently rewarded by the market.
A first action of this kind is the measure co-financed by the EU to buy in British cattle aged over 30 months, ensuring that they do not subsequently find their way back into the food chain for human or animal consumption.
In addition, to match the higher weights involved, we have adjusted the quality classes eligible for intervention; we cannot use intervention for all qualities, since we have no interest in holding only meat in intervention which no one else wishes to buy.
Consumers will continue to be able to buy products with which to combat a specific organism, as an active substance is only replaced if a new substance can be used for the same purpose.
The third solution was produced by Mr Folias and I think it is rather a good one, and that is that if the corner shop has also to go along with this system then it does not need to go out an buy a complicated computer because the little old lady who keeps the corner shop cannot be expected to operate a computer; she can just display a simple list with the exact cost per standard quantity, for a kilo cheese, a kilo dried sausage or 'saucisse' or whatever.
Anyone who goes into a shop today to buy food for the weekend - and I assume that even Members do such a thing occasionally - has to spend a great deal of time and either be good at mental arithmetic or have their calculator with them if they wish to be price-conscious and compare prices.
As a consumer, I wish to be informed about what I buy: informed about the content as well as the price.
Furthermore, the Council also expects the Commission to deliberate on better methods of labelling meat and especially of indicating its origin and on the measures that might be taken to ensure that, from the stall where the animal is kept to the counter where the consumer buys his or her meat, an unbroken chain exists which makes it possible to trace the purchased meat back to the stall, so to speak.
In this same context it will be very important for us first and foremost to take due account of the expectations that consumers will have of the meat they buy in future.
As most Members will know, when Sweden privatized and introduced competition before their entry into the European Union, it allowed the previous state monopoly to undercut the new competitors and then buy them out.
Is it because we expect that as time goes by someone, the state that is, will be able to buy them and make them available for the pleasure of the general public?
In several countries the only effect this is having is to ensure that nobody can afford to buy new, more environmentally friendly cars.
Well, between contamination and non-contamination lies an even more terrible evil and it strikes at the consumer. It is doubt, and while there is doubt they will not buy meat, and we all know what repercussions follow.
On the contrary, there are already more energy-saving coolers which are no more expensive to buy than the average fridge.
For it is to be hoped that we have come to the end of the era in which budgets could be expanded and politicians could buy popularity by shifting the burden of debt irresponsibly onto future generations.
Let me give you an example: if we arrive at a withdrawal price that is too high, or kept high, do we not perhaps risk encouraging purchasers to buy imported fish which is, objectively speaking, less expensive?
Does this mean that if they had been three, it would have been possible to set up mutual relations based on the exchange of equivalents? If there is anyone here who believes that, I will buy them a drink!
We need to consider for a moment what is meant by anti-tampering measures - we are not concerned with DIY enthusiasts, Mr Barton, or young men who buy themselves a motorbike and then make alterations to it in an attempt to give it more power, all of which is perfectly understandable.
If the directives on the labelling of food products were applied throughout the Union in such a way as to indicate the region of breeding and slaughter, consumers would be able to decide in a more informed way whether or not to buy this product.
Whom did she buy?
Investors should not be discriminated against fiscally in terms of double taxation or capital gains tax because they choose to buy shares that are listed in a market located in another Member State.
For example, a company which sells bolts and wishes to sell in France needs to be matched up with a company in France that wants to buy bolts.
At the present time, where millions of pounds can change hands in a micro-second and with the sort of activities that go on the stock exchange and new methods of electronic commerce, it is clear that the matching of two companies - one which wants to buy and one which wants to sell - can be done quite automatically.
He had to borrow money from the bank to buy his materials.
There is no point in lifting a ban if no one is going to buy the stuff anyway.
In conclusion, public service broadcasting will be under increasing pressure from market forces as pay-per-view and other services buy up more programmes and sporting events but a correct balance between private and public services needs to be struck on this issue.
The reasons why this has not happened are political and financial. There is an unwillingness to become dependent on imported fossil fuels and a lack of finance to buy these fuels.
Negotiations need to be conducted with the Central and Eastern European States, because we have a vicious circle there: we buy the calves, we fatten them, and then we sell the meat back to those states at a reduced price. We do need to discuss the possibility of making certain changes in return for compensation.
I believe, then, that we would do better to judge this question in the long-term context. Thirdly, a substantial cut - and we must always bear in mind that in the case of suckler cows, unlike male animals, we are dealing with individually assigned rights - would probably mean that we would finish up by having to implement a scheme to buy up those rights.
We know, however, that at present one million of these rights are not being used, in other words we would have to buy up a million rights without producing any effect at all by doing so.
And they do so, thirdly and above all, because the essential purpose of this budget is to buy support for the federalist project with the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, by creating indebted clienteles at local and national level.
I fear that the Netherlands will run into even more difficulties in the future because of its government's attitude, which is like someone who has a pound to spend and expects to be able to buy a Rolls Royce.
We are supportive of the notion that comparison between products fosters healthy competition and informs consumers of what they can most effectively buy.
These resources enable it to corrupt the very integrity of our society and its institutions because those engaged in this task are able to buy legal and political protection and corrupt aspects of our judicial and law enforcement systems.
It is appropriate that MEPs should receive a card which they could use only to buy tickets to Brussels and Strasbourg.
They are also very concerned about the pressure they are under to buy expensive toys for their children.
The way the law stands at present, a normal consumer who buys something in another EU Member State can only hope that the product he has bought will not give him any cause to complain.
In particular, they are very disturbed that soya bean protein from genetically modified plants is likely to become part of dozens of products they buy without any labelling whatsoever.
May I remind you, Mr President, honourable Members and the Commissioner, that all of us regularly eat oil and flour, and that we buy mayonnaise, bread, sweets, drinks, ice creams and biscuits.
A general electricity company will be formed in France and will buy the local elected representatives just as, in the case of water, all the socialist, RPR and UDF deputies now in prison were bought.
Now public funds are to go into a market and a business that is doing so well in the form of promotional activities so that, as is written here, people will buy flowers throughout the year, not just occasionally, but all the year round.
Taking out a mortgage to buy a house is usually the largest and most expensive personal financial commitment entered into by most people.
It is actually the case in some countries that young people can buy an alcoholic drink more cheaply than a non-alcoholic one.
If we really want to work for a single internal market, we must enable the undertakings of the fifteen Member States to conduct a dialogue among themselves - to buy and sell each other.
Some cannot even harvest their crops, because they are unable to pay their workers or buy packaging.
My aim is to ensure that the Swedish consumer be given a choice when they buy bananas. They should be offered best quality bananas at the lowest possible prices.
We are buying records via television, we buy clothes through the Internet, and we book our holidays by telephone.
For example, I would not wish to buy, under any circumstances, a foodstuff manufactured from a product to which a gene has been added making it resistant to 'Round Up' , let us say.
Mr President, my 80-year-old aunt has assured me that she will never buy genetically modified foods in her life.
Why, given our efficiency in this technology, do we have to buy in from 'outside' ?
I have heard farmers complaining about feed having to be labelled as to whether it is genetically modified, but surely farmers do not buy feed without knowing its nutritional value?
The consumer must be able to make a free, individual choice on which food they want to buy and consume.
The present text is a good compromise between the interests of the countries which produce raw materials and those which buy them.
When in December 1994, barely six months before the transitional period expired, the Commission asked for the system to be extended, Parliament could not agree, and we asked the Commission to come up with an entirely new proposal for a simple, clear system that would apply in principle to all products, a system that would make it easier for consumers to compare prices when choosing which product to buy.
This is the most appropriate - and simplest - way of informing consumers, since it enables them to compare the prices of the products they wish to buy.
Naturally, we would like consumers to be able, if they so wish, to buy bananas which have been produced by the best methods from an ecological and social point of view.
We, as consumers, should be able to buy whatever bananas we like and we cannot accept a quota system or any other type of restriction on the type of bananas which should be given priority.
Mr President, as I listened carefully to Mr Santer the following scene came into my mind: a ship, caught up in a great storm, is in danger of drifting on to rocks and breaking up, and the captain, instead of sending out an SOS to try to save the situation, sits in his cabin writing in the ship's log the provisions that he intends to buy in the port, assuming that he arrives there...
It is absolutely necessary to do this to consolidate the markets which European farmers have for their meat products. It is necessary also to reassure people in third countries who buy our products.
We produce a million tonnes of beef in the European Union that have to be sold in third countries. It is common knowledge that consumers outside of the European Union are increasingly aware of health and safety aspects of the products which they buy from us.
Sometimes both farmers and the public at large see that BSE-free herds have been slaughtered first whilst herds that had had cases of BSE were left in limbo, their owners knowing that the cattle would be culled at some time but not knowing whether to buy in extra winter feed or not.
The tendency of the processing industry to buy as cheaply and anonymously as possible must be stopped, partly for the sake of consumers but also partly for the sake of producers, since processing companies would then have less freedom to keep changing suppliers.
For financial services the difference between transactions concluded at a distance and those not concluded at a distance is less relevant than when one buys a simple consumer good such as a book or a sweater.
I say that with a backward glance at Mrs Kestelijn; I am not happy that people should have fail-safe guarantees if they buy an insurance or savings policy or whatever from a door-to-door salesman, and that if sitting in your easy chair one fine evening you order something from the TV which has major consequences later, the supplier has no obligations towards you.
The parallel existence of free movement for individuals under the European Union and the existence of the Nordic passport union must be properly regulated either under Schengen or by the European Union, and I do not buy the idea that all that will lead to great confusion or insurmountable problems.
23 years after the invasion of Cyprus and the continued occupation of 40 % of the island's territory by Turkish troops, the USA and Member States of the EU - ignoring Turkey's manifest arms superiority - are ordering the Republic of Cyprus not to buy a Russian missile defence system on the grounds that it will upset the 'balance of forces' in one of the most militarized regions in the world.
For Member States the question is not one of how aid can best be coordinated, but one of donor competition: how far they can buy influence by being the biggest donors in particular situations.
And thirdly: it is inadmissible that the European Commission buys off compliance with regulations by reducing financial corrections for a specific year although no improvements in that budget year were identified.
But nor should we pretend that whatever we produce, someone will buy it at some point.
The Member States must make an effort providing schools with the required computer equipment so that multimedia education is available to all, since many families, for obvious economic reasons, are not able to buy multimedia equipment.
I have to say that if I go into my local Co-operative supermarket in Walsall on a Saturday morning to buy a can of baked beans, they actually protect their interest in that can of baked beans with greater scientific control than is the case when we control financial liability in the transit system.
Finally, I would appeal to those people who buy black-market cigarettes to remember that they are putting money into the hands of ruthless criminals who are possibly also engaged in laundering money from drugs.
In order to keep factories there have to be cars to be manufactured and buyers to buy them.
If we examine the costs, they will be recouped from the millions of motorists that will drive these cars, refuel these cars, that will buy these cars, not just in Europe but in other parts of the world at an average cost of ECU 10 per year, per motorist.
It would be much cheaper for the EU countries to buy the people's weapons from them than to force them to give them up.
It is simply not possible to import courage, or to buy it at the supermarket and what the Commission and the Council really need is a spot of courage to face the American colossus, which with its array of weaponry - and this is shamefully never admitted - manages to frighten Ministers and Commissioners.
I should also like to say that consumers must naturally have an assurance that the goods they buy as organic really are organic products.
If we have to depend on other countries outside the Union, we can have no credible defence, since we can only buy whatever they are selling rather than what we really need.
As well as producing together when it is necessary and possible, we should also purchase in common, buy European, practice European preference, in order to prevent certain Member States - as was again the case recently - purchasing American military equipment rather than European equipment of at least equivalent technological level and lower in cost.
This investment is based on the fact that Sweden's non-aligned policy requires that we are independent in this respect as well, or at least that we have sufficient capacity to be a suitably advanced co-operation partner to be able to buy the most modern equipment which we do not ourselves manufacture.
They are now depending upon the European Union to buy them time.
In fact, the FAO has estimated that there is a very large and unacceptable total subsidy to fishing fleets worldwide. Because of this there is overfishing, further depletion of stocks and the need for nations to buy more fishing rights elsewhere.
What would be the use of a single currency if we had less to buy?
After all, surely it is a thousand times better to take over good ideas from the US or Japan than to get into a situation where we can only buy the appropriate energy technology from them.
The greatest enemy of peace and freedom is the policy of intimidation, which buys short-term peace at the expense of truth and justice.
Of course we must try to break into the lucrative American market, but first of all let us make sure that we produce programmes that will sell across our own borders, that people will be interested in and will buy, and thus add more to the pot for independent producers.
We are going to buy the Russians for ECU 30 million.
This means that in vocational training and in businesses we must teach people how to manufacture products, how to supply products and services that consumers will buy.
Thus, as the recent awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize has proved, it is possible to buy arms is one country of the European Union to perpetuate the military occupation of a territory and to subjugate a people.
Many of the products we buy in the shops have labels warning us of particular health risks or potential allergies.
Yet while a number of schoolchildren are teaching themselves, but also their parents, how to use these new technologies, others have no access to them: disabled pupils, pupils with learning difficulties and those who do not have the money to buy the basic equipment.
Unfortunately, not all children have parents who are interested in computers or who can afford to buy a computer.
Having put the ban in place, I see no option but to hold the line and to continue even if we have to buy our way out.
It's true, we need only look around, inside and outside this Chamber, and we will see that we could hardly build or buy much more than we already have built and bought here in Brussels.
It is also entirely wrong that PHARE funding should be used in Slovakia to buy history books containing xenophobic comments, and it is regrettable that the Council will not give me an answer to my questions.
Mr President, the EU buys up fishing rights in third countries because fish stocks are declining in its own waters and there is overcapacity in its fishing fleets.
Besides, almost all consumers want full information about the foods they buy.
In the interests of consumers, the Danish Social Democrats favour a compromise between the two principles, so that a consumer who buys a product in one country on the basis of advertising originating in another should not have to be familiar with the other country's law and trade practices in order to be able to complain about any defects in the product.
Secondly, as has already been mentioned by my colleague with regard to peripherality - and the President-in-Office also mentioned this - the fact is that people leaving the Community would still be entitled to buy duty-free.
I should just like to add that abandoning tobacco production in Europe would really be committing economic and social harakiri , in that it would not reduce the number of smokers by as much as one, and they would consequently buy cigarettes from non-member countries, to the great joy, as has already been pointed out, of the foreign, particularly American, multinationals.
The tobacco industry purchases its supplies from the world market, and if Europe fails to deliver the right quantity or quality, the industry will buy from outside the European Union.
The Commission's proposal to buy up the quotas will result in economic hardship for large regions, increased unemployment and desertion of rural areas.
So, instead of relying on a postal service which may deliver to islands late or not at all, as has been described here, or which is too expensive, people buy a fax machine and...
All too often advertising agencies crudely attempt to entice people to buy products with the help of pictures of naked or semi-naked women.
Mr President, women are not goods for anyone to buy, although that is sometimes the impression given.
The fact that Parliament will have to buy its D3 building in Brussels by using a special purpose vehicle might be to the advantage of the Luxembourg taxpayer who will receive certain benefits from the additional taxes we pay in Luxembourg, but it will cost the European taxpayer about ECU 1 million more in year one than if we had followed the Commission's proposal of direct Community financing of the acquisition of our buildings.
The discriminatory import barriers which we are now discussing were introduced because, if they were given a free choice, consumers would to a large extent prefer to buy bananas from other sources.
As European consumers it is our right to be able to buy bananas from those areas which represent good value for money and which reflect the democratic rights and good social standards that we expect and promote in those countries.
It is suggested that about ECU 1 billion be collected to buy the closure of Chernobyl from the Ukrainians - let us be blunt about it - and then we should finance with this money two new nuclear power stations, which will be - as Mrs Flemming has just said - an ongoing risk.
A World Bank plan exists to buy out almost half the world's production in Russia, costing only $ 27 million, yet the response by Member States so far has been poor.
I would call upon the Commission to get its full strength and full weight behind this proposal to buy that production out, to isolate the remaining production in China and to ensure that this illegal trade is stopped.
You can buy it out - it costs peanuts.
The World Bank is now trying, as some speakers also mentioned, to buy out the people who produce these substances. For example, by providing DM 140 million to Russia so that they will refrain from producing what they have committed themselves by agreement not to produce.
Since developing countries now have the right to produce freons until the year 2010, there is perhaps no alternative but to buy them out in one way or another.
If someone owns a car cooled with CFCs, replacement for the air conditioning costs over $ 200, and that money can buy a car in the USA.
I believe it will also be necessary to reinforce control measures in Member States, to examine quotas carefully, and perhaps to buy more equipment like that used in the USA to detect smuggled CFCs.
And then I will also have to tell my constituents that they will have to buy a pig in a poke, that I cannot explain to them what the Council has written, and the Council will not explain to them what it has written; that the Council thinks they should go and vote in a referendum completely in the dark because it thinks that they should have sufficient faith in it and expect everything to be surely interpreted for the best.
The electorate, I am convinced, will not be forced to buy a pig in a poke.
The traders can develop an even more personal approach to the interests of their customers or, for example, explore wider forms of association, allowing them to buy in on better terms.
We could therefore just as well buy from these countries as from ACP countries.
We must achieve a situation whereby beef is not transported all across Europe. We must think more about regional circulation, so that the consumer can buy local meat whose production he also knows.
On the internal market consumption is falling while on the external market third-party countries are reluctant to buy European meat.
For this reason we in the European Union must build these installations, in order to make it possible for customers in third countries to buy meat instead of live animals.
We shall have experts in the area of procurement who can set up fair, non-discriminatory conditions and who know how to buy environmentally-friendly buses or environmentally-friendly washing powder.
Mrs Thyssen held up a bar of chocolate and described how clearly indicating whether or not it contained vegetable fats would help consumers to decide whether or no to buy it.
This solvency margin, which is a guarantee of security for those who buy insurance, it reinforces the protection of consumers.
If it is not possible to reach agreement on this point, at the very least the rule must be that the note "contains substituted vegetable fats' must be printed in large characters beside the word "chocolate' , so that the consumer is informed about the objective qualities of the product which he is about to buy and consume.
The Times I can buy in London for 35p - I apologise for its headline about banning Labour MEPs - costs 400 % more when I buy it in France.
It has been mentioned here that the Arabs buy live animals from New Zealand and Australia. This is obviously a difficult problem.
Because the fact is that, firstly, it is just from the point of view of animal rights; and, secondly, it is vital to the improvement of the quality of meat - and it is important that this should be emphasized - which is in the interests both of the producers who sell meat and the consumers who buy it.
We then go and buy up that overproduction and in a hungry world we then destroy the fruit.
We must not forget that whoever sells or buys this material is abusing a child - a child who is not just a picture, but a real person who exists and has been violated.
It should also be possible to punish the people who buy this sort of filth, the consumers.
Yes, we need transparency and greater openness, and we must restore to consumers confidence that the food they buy in the shops is of the highest possible standard.
But a precondition is that we are all able to rely on the fact that the food we buy is not a danger to health.
As consumers we must be able to have confidence that the food we buy and eat is good for us.
Two things may lie behind a pickpocket theft in a city. Firstly, it may be a single act by a drug addict needing money to buy drugs.
If one knows that organized crime can call on a great deal of money and possesses business structures, then it must be obvious that these organizations can buy in specialists and technical experts and even modern technology. And they do just that.
But I still think that we must appeal to all the responsible men who do not buy minors and who do not buy people forced into prostitution, or even willing prostitutes.
Thus, individuals can buy goods for personal use in any other Member State without having to declare them or pay tax at the border.
We do not have the courage to do that, but you can't buy courage on the market and so it's not easy.
Today a twelve-year-old, even a ten-year-old child can go and buy cigarettes, saying they are buying them for their dad, and the child will get the cigarettes.
Another objection was that the Inuits of Northern Canada can only live off tourism, in the style of Marie Antoinette, who suggested that the starving people of Paris should eat cake if they were unable to buy bread.
Nobody is obliged to buy foodstuffs of this kind, but we think that people who want to do so should also have the option of being provided with a high standard of information.
I am also voting in favour of the report for health and social reasons, even if it restricts consumers' freedom to buy tobacco as they like in some ways.
Consumers will have to be able to decide for themselves whether to buy genetically modified foods or not.
If you buy a pig in a poke, as our colleagues here have done, then you should not be surprised if you end up with a mess.
The single currency is both a means and an end to make the citizens understand that they form part of a community in which they can travel, buy, move and so on, thanks to the single currency.
Instead, we buy something without knowing what it is, unless it says on it what it is.
There people go in with one share and have one vote, so it does not work in the same way as the share system, where people go in and buy as many votes they like by buying lots of shares.
After all, cars do not buy cars.
This analogy with a clinical picture will be relevant, because while the prescriptions and treatment required by the Commission are aimed at sufferers in the terminal stages, as emergency aid called "exceptional assistance' for those on the brink of starvation so that they do not die of hunger but continue to live in hunger, there is another image in this part-session week, which is also similar to a drug addict who has got into debt and is desperate because he has no drugs or money: "I'll sell you my product on credit, even if you do not want to buy it, and now you have no money to pay me and so I have been increasing my prices as you grow dependent on them.
You are in need but do not kill yourself, do not kill anyone, do not steal, I ask you for part of the debt and I lend you more money so you can buy more doses at the price I have fixed for the time being, and then I'll put it up later' .
It cannot be sufficient to buy years of freedom from environmental worries by purchasing a new car with a catalytic converter. The OBD systems will require greater discipline on the part of the consumer, who must keep his vehicle constantly in tiptop condition.
I also have a specific question concerning the oil company Premier Oil, which in September 1997 announced its intention to buy the shares of the US firm Texaco from a natural gas company.
I had asked whether the British oil company, Premier Oil, announced in September 1997 its intention to buy shares in a natural gas firm in Yetagun from the US firm Texaco after the latter decided to pull out of Burma.
As regards this proposed code of conduct, there are quite a number of deficiencies in it, for example the fact that only arms exporting countries will be able to call the shots on who buys their arms if this code of conduct is adopted. That means countries like Ireland, which has no major arms industry, will have little say in how the EU arms policy would be implemented.
Or could people even buy goods in a third country in the EU and pay the duty in the country which has the lowest duty?
I specify this because Mr Jarzembowski will I know be interested to be informed that a couple of years ago the Daily Mail - not a newspaper that I customarily buy - incredibly printed a front-page story about me going to impose Euro-numberplates on all unsuspecting citizens of the Union.
I therefore call in my report - and here I turn to the Commission - for the very rapid setting up of a legal framework, so that the consumer can decide what to buy on the basis of enlightenment and appropriate product labelling.
It is shocking that additional costs of ECU 9.3 million were incurred because Portugal buys large quantities of maize on the world market and then sells it on the Portuguese market at intervention prices, thereby giving the imported maize a considerable price advantage over that produced in the Community.
Under the Commission's proposal, it is theoretically conceivable that, for example, a buyer might buy a car, drive around for months in it, clocking up some 50 000 km, park up and claim once there is damage to the engine, ' I'd like to have a new car, please.'
Let's take a second, reverse scenario: I buy a hair dryer for 30 marks in a cut-price supermarket.
This is necessary if we believe there should be an internal market which should ensure that the consumer is able to buy products throughout Europe, and that there should be a service attached to the products he buys.
The idea that consumers should have a clear conception of their rights as regards guarantees when they buy goods in countries other than their own is an important one.
If the common market is to have real meaning, then one aspect of its benefits is that people should feel confident about such things as guarantees when they buy goods in other European countries.
What is needed is an arrangement which ensures that when a consumer, coming from one Member State, buys goods in another, he or she is then informed about the consumer's rights under guarantee pertaining in that country where the purchase is carried out.
Well, I share the opinion of those who believe that if a product is so dangerous that it should not be advertised, it would be much better not to produce it in the first place, nor buy it, nor sell it.
Introducing such a rule would remove the efficiency, simplicity and speed with which it is possible to buy train tickets up until a few minutes before the train goes today.
If my mother was on the boat, she would know when to buy the stuff.
A flagrant example is Indonesia, which has been able to buy arms from EU countries, suppress East Timor and hold its own population outside of democratic influence and reasonable legal certainty, which recently has affected not least the Chinese minority.
It was also noted that, especially if you wanted to buy tickets in France, you had to have an address in France.
He may of course decide to go anyway and try to buy tickets on the black market.
This is the case we have before us, because it is unacceptable that you need to buy a whole package, including travel, accommodation and tourist services, just to be able to get a ticket.
There is a risk, in this case, that it will favour one party, namely the manufacturers of this new equipment, and worry the other party, namely those who have to buy them without total guarantees, not only for the operation, but for the credibility of the checks that can be made with this equipment.
Mr Schröder may manage to buy a steelworks at the taxpayers' expense and to sit on the Volkswagen Supervisory Board, but he is not up to forming a strategic monetary policy or to buying Rolls-Royce.
In future anyone who wants to build a house, take out credit or buy a car on credit will be directly affected by a decision of the European Central Bank.
Moreover it is clear that most of the duty-free shops will not suffer at all, as people do not buy there because it is cheaper - in fact often it is more expensive, as I know from experience - but because people have time on their hands, and they want to buy a gift, and so on. We are behind the Council and the Commission.
Consumer freedom means not having to buy US hormone-treated meat or genetically manipulated soya.
Terminator crops are those crops which when planted are genetically pre-programmed to probably last only one season, at the end of which they die and the farmer in question has to buy new foods from the supplier.
The Council's position gives only the big combined heat and power stations the right always to buy gas freely.
My group believes that all gas-fired combined heat and power stations should be entitled to buy gas freely. We oppose Article 18.
It is therefore important that these companies can be considered full market players, and are able to buy their gas freely.
On the one hand, we are calling for a doubling or trebling of the role of combined heat and power; on the other, we are afraid to write into our directive that they may buy their gas wherever they like.
A patent system which does not respect the Convention on Biodiversity risks developing into a system in which large transnational companies can take control of the genetic wealth of these countries which they must then buy back in various forms.
We should ensure that ecologically sound products are also of good quality and that consumers are satisfied and prepared to buy them a second time. If they are not good quality there is a risk that no-one will buy them, however eco-friendly they may be.
The more consumers assimilate the significance of the eco-label and demand it of the products they buy, the keener manufacturers will be to start manufacturing more durable and environment-friendly products.
Nor does the consumer make himself liable to prosecution or contravene any laws unless he is intending to buy medicines which are clearly prohibited.
So people no longer say that culture requires more and more money and more and more subsidies but that there is a solution to subsidies in the area of culture if we learn more, experience more, buy more books, go to the cinema more often, visit more museums and thus spend more money on the culture market.
Obscenity is clearly endangering the benefits of the Internet. Because of fears such as this parents tell me that they may buy their children a PC but not the modem that will give them access to the world-wide web.
It needs to be reliable because if consumers cannot buy and trade then they will lose interest; it will not be delivering what they need.
Consumers will be able to compare prices, and conversely, electronic commerce might contribute to the acceptance of the euro, as this form of trade breaks down the barrier to buy abroad.
They offer this information for sale in an electronic format, but because they only offer the complete package, it is only the wealthy airlines that can afford to buy it.
This should not be allowed to become a monopoly position de facto, just because it is only the financially very strong companies which can buy that information.
Commercial farmers have also been concerned that they too could lose out and be forced always to buy a limited number of expensive seed strains from big seed breeding companies.
If a pocket is picked, for example in Brussels, we may be dealing in some cases with a drug addict acquiring money so that he can buy his drugs. But we may also be dealing with specialist pickpockets who are flown into the city and spend a whole day there working systematically.
They are used to buy things there and the goods purchased are turned back into money by fence organizations. That is organized crime.
The credit card industry is resisting this approach partly with the argument that a silver shop in India would never raise enough money to buy such a machine. The industry argues that the introduction of such an approach would hinder the further spread of credit cards.
As the example of France shows, the credit card industry is interested in simplifying the buying of goods by means of credit cards and in encouraging as many people as possible - that is after all the purpose of credit cards - to be able to buy goods with greater ease in an economy which is becoming more and more entwined internationally, so tempting them to buy goods.
For example, it is a cleaner technology than coal or oil. Also, we have to buy gas from the new producers, such as Russia, Azerbaijan or the United Arab Emirates, because the world contains large reserves, and the efficiency is higher.
The Commission has partly conceded this case with its proposals to buy back quota, give support to producers to change to other crops and other activities and its encouragement of production of tobacco types which can command a reasonable market price.
The result is simply that the European Union will have to buy this product abroad.
The truth is that Milosevic wants to buy time, with the acquiescence - if not with the approval - of the international community, as has occurred in the past.
There was no advertising and no information about the car, its price or where to buy one.
Frankly, it seems to me that this is a manoeuvre to buy time, and it also goes beyond any Rules of Procedure.
I refer to Manuel Zamarreño, a councillor from Rentería. He was an unemployed workman, his wife earned a living cleaning staircases around their neighbourhood, and he had gone out to buy some bread to have for breakfast with his four children.
No, I am one of those people who is passionately committed to keeping duty-free shops at airports and on ships for people travelling inside the European Union, who should keep the right to buy typical products, artefacts and other goods free of tax.
I am not just an advocate of duty-free because I want to make it easy for executives with money to spend to buy luxury goods on business trips.
If you travel via Brussels airport, as most Members here do, you go into the main lobby in terminal B and you can buy a bottle of spirits and 200 cigarettes.
You then go down terminal B to get to your gate and there are another two duty-free shops there where you can buy another bottle of spirits and another 200 cigarettes at each one of these shops.
While you are flying back to Glasgow they come around asking if you would like to buy duty-free. You can buy another bottle of spirits and another 200 cigarettes.
Finally, Mr President, Community legislation does not contain any provision allowing passengers travelling to third countries to buy duty-free goods at airports within the Community where they first embark. This is initially an intra-Community flight.
The elements are: direct access to European Union markets; a fair price; income stability - the fact that fair trade organizations pay part of the price in advance is crucial for small-scale producers who can then buy inputs and perhaps get through the season without resort to moneylenders; finally, feedback and capacity building, where producers gain confidence to approach a trading system they once saw as too complicated.
What is missing is the consumer motivation to buy these products.
I hope the EU negotiators will take on board this Parliament's wishes and as a result I will be looking for more and more labels on supermarket shelves in future telling me that I can buy fair trade goods and help the people of the developing world who make them.
I wish to conclude by saying that training measures are of course particularly important for the clothing industry, as in the long run consumers will only buy the goods they want.
And many parents buy dried fruit loose for their children as a healthier alternative to sweets. However, thanks to sulphites, this can lead to allergies.
I agree with Mr Whitehead that it may be a godsend for the Scottish Scouts, who are apparently here in the Gallery, if they no longer have to rub two twigs together to boil the kettle because they will be able to buy hot tea in cans - if indeed the European Commission allows that to happen.
The answer could not be simpler: you just have to produce products and offer services that people want to buy.
When we buy animals, they leave the lorry at ground level as well.
We cannot expect small-scale farmers to fit a hydraulic loading ramp onto their vehicles for driving their animals to the market; they would have to quit altogether rather than go out and buy one of those.
We all know that it is cheaper for industrialised countries to buy hot air, than to implement even the simplest energy-saving measures at home.
The simplicity with which American private investors can buy shares and the new opportunities offered by electronic commerce are trends that Europe has to follow.
Let us begin with the concept of freedom of contract: those who buy and sell must respect ethical principles, but also practical, operational ones which underpin the economy. Conditions of contract are one of these fundamental principles governing company sales.
Another example to show how far removed the Commission is from economic reality: a private customer in a Member State can come and buy up to 90 litres of wine on the wine-grower's property (with four in the car they could take away 360 litres of wine) without having to pay any excise duties, while a wine-grower cannot go and deliver a single litre of wine unless it is transported by an 'approved' operator.
If you fail to do so, Commissioner, the Angolan government will think that it can get away with its current practice of using profits from oil and diamonds to buy weapons, and humanitarian aid, no matter how well-intentioned, will be pointless.
There is an enormous disparity between the prices of the equipment which consumers can buy in Europe at the present time and equipment prices in other continents.
The departments responsible for finance must therefore buy ECU on the free market, with all the inherent exchange-rate risks.
The measures which were referred to by Mrs van Bladel are three-fold in character: a decision to buy shares in the stock market which boosted the share index by 19 % over two weeks; further measures to strengthen the currency board, increase liquidity and calm the volatility of inter-bank interest rates; and, thirdly, measures to improve transparency and enforce greater discipline on the stock market.
It will naturally also mean stronger competition and lower prices, because better comparability will allow consumers to look all the more carefully at where they actually buy.
The only single market worth having is the one where we can all make informed choices about what we buy, what we eat and how we live.
Furthermore, it will mean higher prices and less choice for the consumer, who is often the victim of fraud because he is not told where the pirated device he buys is from and is also led to believe that the device being bought is an authorized one.
Are you aware that in Belgium, while we know the volume of trade with foreign countries, we do not know anything about what the Walloons buy in Flanders, and that there is a refusal to carry out any sort of linguistic census in Brussels and its surrounding area?
Nor am I affected by the collapse of the Russian and Asian markets, because my markets are on my doorstep; the people who want to buy from me - and who are not concerned about Asia or Russia, nor do they believe they ought to eat more meat because of the growth of agro-industrial production - stick to their standards, as I stick to mine. Nor have I expanded my production.
That is why this report is so important. We must aim at production geared to quality, and then let us certainly produce for the world market, but I beg you, not with state aids but by finding customers and areas on the world markets that actually want to buy these products.
We must recognise that the new multimedia conglomerates are continually endeavouring to buy up the rights of many sporting events worldwide.
The scenario of the legal big bang, which is supported by the Dutch Parliament, makes it necessary to distribute euro coins and notes before 1 January 2002 when they are not yet legal tender, in the same way as a tourist buys pesetas before going to Spain.
Environmental protection and sustained development are becoming ever more important to consumers when they choose the food they buy.
But I must call into question the historical roots behind the library idea, two of which were very important. The first is to make it possible for the general public to read without having to buy the book, and the second is to enable them to find books which simply could not be found at that time in the many small bookshops.
In Finland, at least, books are so expensive that only a few people can afford to buy everything they need for study purposes, or for cultural reasons, for example.
Under the current directive, it is possible for a consumer to buy a washing machine which floods out his entire kitchen.
People should be able to buy and use homeopathic medicinal products in the knowledge that they will not harm their health.
If a briefcase is stolen in Brussels, this may be an individual act by a criminal who wants money, perhaps to buy drugs.
The stolen credit cards are flown on by plane to other parts of the world the same night and used there to buy goods, which receivers of stolen goods then convert back into cash, which is then channelled back into the normal economic cycle through money-laundering operations.
Were the price were to drop below face value, people would be encouraged to buy gold and make their own coins. It is worth remembering how much easier it is to counterfeit coins than banknotes.
Here again, the question is whether all chat systems are compatible and whether everyone can afford to buy the necessary equipment.
While Community funding could play a helpful part in bridging the gap between the less and the more developed parts of the Community, in essence they are a drop in the ocean, designed to throw dust in the eyes of the people of Europe, to buy off consciences and to create mechanisms for promoting the major monopolistic interests which are essentially the main beneficiaries of Community programmes, since they possess the necessary equipment and technical knowledge.
Many Member States would prefer to buy an easy conscience, preferably by using money from the European refugee fund, than to actually accept the refugees.
No Member State should be able to buy its way out of this responsibility.
Most Russians can hardly afford to buy themselves food. They are living either below or on the poverty line.
It seems to me that one of the conditions for this must be not to set the prices too high as otherwise you will not help the people you want to help, who are mainly the people with the least money, while people with a lot of money will be able to buy the aid.
We could go through a number of categories of people who are just not getting the income to be able to buy the food that may be available within the country itself.
If we do not give the companies concerned a clear green light to get on with the job of restructuring their operations to this end, we will have only ourselves to blame for the Hobson's Choice which would be ours - to buy American aircraft or to buy nothing.
However, it could not survive without fixed prices, since it cannot buy at such good prices as the big chains of shops, and can therefore only sell at higher prices.
We do not necessarily, or rather we do not always, buy books because of a pretty picture on the cover, but first and foremost because we would like to read the print.
The second point is that I would remind you that my benevolent eye did not just happen to light upon the subject of books one day; we took action because we were receiving complaints, more specifically from Austria: complaints from Libero, complaints from a number of universities which were having real problems over the rapidly rising cost of the books they had to buy.
I am sorry, Mr von Wogau, but it is indeed one of life's pleasures to have time to walk around, browse through a few books, buy something and then read them, either on the way to Strasbourg in the car - I am lucky enough to have a chauffeur so I can read in the car and do not have to leave it until bedtime.
Or whether they would like to buy books?
Can we at least think of the people who have to buy the books?
Competition in air travel has meant that in many cases it is considerably cheaper to fly than to buy a full-fare rail ticket.
It is in fact quite simply an insurance instrument against the consequences of a serious national crisis. It cannot resolve the crisis, but will buy governments the extra time they need to take structural measures to restore the balance.
A Frenchman who is not familiar with the obligation to notify a fault in his own country, buys a product in Germany and for reasons of time or distance does not report the defect in time and tells the truth out of ignorance, forfeits all his rights.
A buyer who buys his goods locally and discovers a defect will immediately inform the seller because he wants to use the product. This is generally what will happen.
It means that when you buy something you can count on having guarantees and that you are no longer dependent on the manufacturer's warranty alone, but have guarantees for a period of two years in the case of new products and one year in the case of second-hand products.
What we do not want for the small business is that the sometimes hard-pressed retailer is forced to hand out lists of service points in the various countries every time a customer buys something.
If you buy a nice Philips or Siemens appliance or whatever, the manufacturer himself does that and the purchaser then has that list.
The proposed legislation gives enormous protection to the consumer, but no one seems to be concerned about the same consumer who buys something abroad and cannot then go back to the seller or shopkeeper.
We know that in the European Union an increasing number of consumers buy goods in each other's countries and this is likely to increase with the use of the single currency.
We also know that when they do so, consumers are often under-informed and confused about the nature of the guarantees that go with the goods that they buy.
I also think that, in order to make things a little more transparent, we should authorise and demand that more information should be available on this issue via the Internet, so that a consumer who wants to buy a new car can find out simply by sitting at his PC at home that a certain car with extra equipment has a certain level of fuel consumption, and from this he will know the level of CO2 emissions.
Thinking is in binary form: I buy - yes or no; I sell - this or that; my opinion - left or right.
They will be better placed legally as well, free as they are to buy up or merge with other companies; that door is closed to the monopolies.
In particular, action must be taken to prevent UNITA from finding any market for the diamonds which have been used to buy arms and supplies, and De Beers and all other traders must be made to verify their sources of supply and to ensure no monies whatsoever get through to fund this war.
First of all, there is a need to ensure that UNITA can no longer mine diamonds and buy modern weapons with the proceeds from their sale.
The mercenaries were not returned to their countries and, in defiance of the agreement, the government continues to buy arms, particularly from Russia, which is a member of the troika and the UN Security Council.
However, the rich countries are the ones that adopt illegally, that take drugs, that buy organs, and so on. We cannot just look from the North to the South with a critical eye, since we know that the developed countries are the ones that facilitate this type of trade because of their advanced economic and financial situation.
It is also unacceptable that 250 million children worldwide are at work, and that we in the developed countries buy, at a low cost, some of the products made by those same children.
Goodness knows how hard it was to achieve this agreement, and we shall do everything in our power to ensure that those who buy these products actually know what they are buying.
My second point is that we have always pressed for labelling, so that every consumer can choose whether or not to buy one of this limited range of treated food products. Consumers can leave them on the shelves.
We proposed labelling so that all consumers can make an entirely free choice as to whether the chocolate they buy is made entirely of cocoa bean ingredients or whether they will accept the use of other vegetable fats.
We buy around 830 000 tonnes of bananas from the ACP countries, including the Côte d'Ivoire and Cameroon.
89 % of the British public believe keeping hens in small cages in cruel. Almost half of all Britain's households now buy barn or free-range eggs.
Unfortunately, 93 % of eggs are produced like this in Europe, but the consumer does not know that the eggs he buys come from egg factories, where the hens are kept in narrow cages, piled up to ten storeys, like a sort of concentration camp. There are four or five hens in each cage, they cannot spread their wings or scratch the ground or perform any of the activities typical of their natural behaviour.
Because more humanely produced eggs cost slightly more, many people continue to buy eggs from battery hens.
British consumers are able and willing to buy eggs from free-range hens.
If the border between Denmark and Germany is abolished, people will go to Germany and buy cheap petrol and heating oil.
At the end of the day, it is consumers who create jobs, by deciding which products to buy and which services to use.
That would mean that Coca-Cola could buy the Bordeaux name and then resell the cheapest wines in the world under that name.
This would also make things easier for small craft companies involved in reproduction, and indeed for their clients, almost always university students forced to buy very expensive textbooks even when they only need one chapter, thus feeding an often unregulated lobbyist market obviously speculating on comparative prices.
But the Kosovans cannot be allowed to use the profits from drug-dealing to buy arms to perpetuate the war.
We also believe that consumers have an absolute right to information, which means that they ought to be able to choose whether to buy products containing genetically modified ingredients or substances.
Quite honestly, I think that we should be talking about stopping financial aid, since it is obviously being used to buy Antonovs and Migs.
The big companies might be able to buy up the small ones, but in many cases it is the small companies which have a fine investment record in our rural areas.
We need not pit one tradition against the other in a Kulturkampf , but it is clear that these traditions are worth preserving. The problem of alcoholism does not arise in connection with beverages that a consumer buys and drinks because he or she values its taste and quality.
No consumer will buy a bottle of Pétrus or Amarone in order to get drunk.
Processed meat producers, including Defco Food, buy the pork and beef meat they require for their production from within the whole of the EC and not only in the country concerned.
This means, amongst other things, that the company cannot give its employees the opportunity to buy shares because the new, very large merged company will be entitled to step in and acquire shares ahead of the employees.
We are becoming increasingly dependent on the agricultural production of third countries and will no longer be able to guarantee the quality of the products European consumers buy.
The question is very difficult to answer, Mr von Habsburg, because some people claim that the sales in question are impulse buys or purchases that are only made because they are available.
I do not know if it is correct that pensioners will only buy butter and coffee on ships if they are slightly cheaper.
I am concerned because I have not read today's Belgian newspapers and I do not know what they say. I do not normally buy them here.
Consumers, in other words we, the people, decide what to buy; we choose the manufacturers of the products we want to buy and their regions of origin.
The US action will cost the EU euro 450m. It will throw thousands out of work, devastating and blighting the future of all those families and communities in the interests of American multinationals, who appear to buy their influence through donations to American politicians, who are waging an economic war against some of the poorest communities in the Caribbean.
The fact that North Korea has money for military actions but no money to buy food for its people is a contradiction that we cannot tolerate if we care at all for the people of North Korea.
Only with clear legislation and proper information can consumers be full players in the market who decide for themselves which products are sold and which they want to buy.
It is not acceptable for a consumer who buys a defective product to be denied compensation because he is not the first, but the umpteenth person to make a claim.
Just consider this: a farmer may buy animal fodder in all good conscience and feed it to his animals in the conviction that it contains no animal protein because it is not labelled as such, these are still not labelled.
They have given their lives to buy time for politicians to solve the political problems of Northern Ireland. They have been at the coalface of terrorism from both Loyalist and Republican thugs.
Because it was so expensive to mend shoes, consumers tended to throw them away and buy new ones.
Mr President, thanks to the single market and new electronic communications, it has become somewhat easier to buy and sell things in Europe using remote methods.
The subsidiarity principle requires us to see how these two approaches can best be combined. We can do that by setting minimum European standards and protecting the consumer in such a way that he is perfectly happy to buy financial services using remote methods.
We welcome this definition, because it is often advertising that leads purchasers to buy.
I believe that a directive on the subject can be justified if it brings real benefits to consumers who buy goods across borders - but this directive does not do so.
I believe that the directive fails to deal satisfactorily with the situation where a consumer buys goods in one country, then goes home and finds that they are defective.
However, I want to ensure that when my constituents take advantage of the single market and buy abroad, they enjoy the same level of consumer protection as they have in Britain.
The Labour Government has long been committed to more information for consumers, so that they can make informed choices about the products they buy, and the right to redress in case anything goes wrong.
Under the British presidency, for example, we pushed through a long-awaited agreement on consumer guarantees establishing rights for consumers when they buy goods anywhere in the single market.
There are many other indications to support these findings and we must also finally get away from the situation where the WTO only addresses the question of residues, for when they decide to buy goods, consumers also have the right to object to a certain kind of production.
If people do not want to buy such food, they want to have food in a different way, but so that we know exactly how it has been produced, then in my opinion that should be possible.
We know that when the announcement was made about the chicken 'with dioxin in it' , consumers rushed out to buy fish, even though we know that fish are fed with the same food.
As the House will recall, the Commission responded to complaints from people outside France who were finding it impossible to buy tickets by beginning an investigation.
You could not buy a ticket by telephoning and paying FF500, but for FF5, 000 you could get the same ticket and the equivalent of a school dinner - I have had corporate hospitality before.
The consequences of this new internationalism are plainly visible. There are more and more marriages between people of different countries and, similarly, people work and study abroad, buy and sell goods and services abroad, and invest or borrow money in countries other than their own.
Thirdly, I have heard that there are plans afoot to buy the building because the rent amounts to rather a lot of money.
We as farmers can only produce high-quality products if we can also be certain that the animal feed we also have to buy is also in order.
Many in our group take the view that emissions trading, i.e. the freedom to buy the obligation to reduce CO2, is not politically tenable.
When someone buys a television, the question of how much energy it uses on stand-by is not generally of prime importance. They have other criteria in mind, and this is why we also need technical solutions to this problem.
It will not be possible for a country to buy itself free of obligations. There must be a system of rules through which, instead, countries honour their commitments in the most effective way.
If you use a concept such as "an exchange for trade in emission rights" , then I think that we are feeding the thought that this is to be a cynical system in which it will be possible for countries to buy themselves free of obligations. Now, this is definitely not my approach.
Legally, the European Union is at present a non-entity, a nothing; it cannot even buy a house, let alone be represented in an international organisation.
My party, which has a clear election manifesto to seek Britain' s withdrawal from the EU, notes that if the Commission had not interfered in the first place, back in 1996, individual nations would have been able to decide whether or not to buy British beef.
At that time, a number of countries, particularly South African and Botswana, were willing to continue to buy British produce.
If we now know that cars are accountable for 12% of these CO2 emissions, if we know that people who buy cars are completely unaware of the fact that the car is a polluting tool and to what extent it does pollute, although, for example, they do know what the maximum permitted level of alcohol in the blood is or I know that if I buy a car which uses three litres per 100 km then this is quite an economical car, then it is a matter of urgency to make the consumer aware of car pollution.
Whilst I realise that there are subsidiarity implications for this flexibility it is also true that by having different information and different formats in different Member States this could distort the single market and confuse consumers who wish to buy in different states.
Another obvious question is why, when someone from Denmark buys a car in Germany, or someone from France buys one in Italy, they do not get the same information about its design.
The directive before us allows consumers to buy a car not only according to its horsepower, but also its CO2 emissions, by referring to a "top ten" list.
The internal market is a reality. The internal market exists and all European citizens benefit greatly from this in the form of low inflation, low pricing and the large choice of goods and services which they want to buy.
The rich could dig in behind their barriers, they could buy some essential things from the poorer countries but we would be back to the seventeenth century with the strong exploiting the weak.
However, we should not lose sight of the fact that asylum seekers look for safety, need a roof over their head and money to buy food.
We had no traffic from Third World countries, and nor did we have very much money so, even if the supply of drugs had been there, we would not, I am sure, have been able to buy them. The main point, however, was that we did not see any need for them.
If CO2 consumption drops due to changes in purchasing patterns, because suddenly we all want to buy three-litre cars, then that is something else.
We have to make sure that global regulation does not compromise Europe's market strength in the type of vehicles that most world consumers want to buy.
That is a pity because, as far as I can see, that is the main issue, especially in view of the fact that one large country, one contracting partner, is saying we want to be able to buy ourselves out of all our emissions obligations.
As far as I am concerned, there can be no question of allowing countries to buy their way out of all their emission obligations, because what that means, in essence, is that we and the USA are able to absolve ourselves from our own obligations at the expense of less developed countries.
Firstly, the pre-eminence of money is not acceptable as this allows countries which have the means to do so to buy the right to pollute from poorer countries!
Consumers should be able to rely upon the quality of the beef they buy, and they can only do that if it is possible to monitor the animal concerned from its birth until such time as the beef ends up on the dinner table.
The truth is that we ban American beef today because those hormones are there; but the truth is also that we know that, if we allowed the Americans to sell that beef into our market, at good value to our consumers, and if we were to put a label on it saying those hormones were there, they would still buy it.
We have at times been told that this ban is not really necessary and that beef only needs to be labelled properly to ensure that the reasonable consumer does not buy British beef.
A French consumer who buys ravioli from Italy cannot be absolutely sure that this does not contain meat from mad British cows.
If we put both 'bio' and 'techno' on a product' s label, consumers will fall over themselves to buy it.
I recognise there is a strong argument for saying that if we do not provide arms to Indonesia they will go elsewhere to buy them, to China or to Russia, for example.
